## **University of Michigan Health Plan** 

## **DRUG DETERMINATION POLICY** 

**Title:** DDP-11 Interleukin Inhibitors 

**Effective Date** : 6/25/25 

## **Important Information - Please Read Before Using This Policy** 

The following policy applies to health benefit plans administered by UM Health Plan and may not be covered by all UM Health Plan plans. Please refer to the member’s benefit document for specific coverage information. If there is a difference between this general information and the member’s benefit document, the member’s benefit document will be used to determine coverage. For example, a member’s benefit document may contain a specific exclusion related to a topic addressed in a coverage policy. 

Benefit determinations for individual requests require consideration of: 

1. The terms of the applicable benefit document in effect on the date of service. 

2. Any applicable laws and regulations. 

3. Any relevant collateral source materials including coverage policies. 

4. The specific facts of the particular situation. 

Contact UM Health Plan Customer Service to discuss plan benefits more specifically. 

## **1.0 Policy:** 

This policy describes the determination process for coverage of specific drugs that require prior approval. 

This policy does not guarantee or approve benefits. Coverage depends on the specific benefit plan. Drug Determination Policies are not recommendations for treatment and should not be used as treatment guidelines. 

## **2.0 Background or Purpose:** 

Interleukin Inhibitors are specialty drugs indicated for a number of diagnoses and are associated with significant toxicity. These criteria for prior approval were developed and implemented to ensure appropriate use for the intended diagnoses and mitigation of toxicity, if possible. 

## **3.0 Clinical Determination Guidelines:** 

Document the following with chart notes: 

- I. General considerations for use 

   - A. Appropriate medication use [must meet all listed below]: 

      1. Diagnosis: meets standard diagnostic criteria that designate signs, symptoms, and test results to support specific diagnosis. 

      2. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approval status [must meet one listed below]: 

         - a. FDA approved: product, indication, and/or dosage regimen. 

         - b. Non-FDA approved use: Compendium support (UpToDate[®] Lexidrug[TM] ) for the use of a drug for a non-FDA approved indication or dosage regimen. 

      3. Place in therapy: sequence of therapy supported by national or internationally accepted guidelines and/or studies (e.g., oncologic, infectious conditions). 

Page **1** of **13** 

--- end of page.page_number=1 ---

- B. Grandfather status: Patients who are new to the plan and have been stable on excluded interleukin inhibitors for at least six months may continue therapy if the plan does not cover a generic, originator product, or a biosimilar of the excluded interleukin inhibitor. 

- C. Required site-of-care as determined by the Health Plan (see DDP-08 Site of Care for Administration of Parenteral Specialty Medications). 

- D. Dose Rounding: medication requests may be automatically rounded up or down by 10% of the requested dose in order to fit the nearest manufacturer's strength of the requested medication for patients weighing above 10 Kg (see DDP-21 Dose Rounding and Wastage). 

- E. Pharmaceutical sample use: The Plan does not recognize samples as a medication trial or for continuation of therapy. 

- F. Excluded agents: Trial of all preferred formulary agents is required unless all are contraindicated. Trial must result in an inadequate response after four consecutive months of use per medication or a severe adverse reaction. 

   1. Actemra subcutaneous (tocilizumab SC) 

   2. Bimzelx (bimekizumab), 

   3. Ilumya subcutaneous (tidrakizumab SC) 

   4. Kevzara subcutaneous (sarilumab SC), 

   5. Siliq subcutaneous (brodalumab SC), 

   6. Taltz subcutaneous (ixekizumab SC) 

   7. Tofidence (tocilizumab-bavi SC) 

   8. Tyenne (tocilizumab-aazg SC) 

   9. Select ustekinumab subcutaneous and intravenous products: 

      - a. Imuldosa (usetekinumab-srlf) 

      - b. Otulfi (ustekinumab-aauz) 

      - c. Pyzchiva (ustekinumab-ttwe) 

      - d. Stelara (usekinumab) *Effective 8/12/25* 

      - e. Starjemza (ustekinumab-hmny) 

      - f. Steqeyma (ustekinumab-stba) 

      - g. Wezlana (ustekinumab-auub) 

- G. Exclusion: Concomitant therapy with other biologics. 

- H. Approval. 

   1. Initial: six months. 

   2. Re-approval: one year [must meet both listed below]: 

      - a. Decreased or sustained reduction in disease activity. 

      - b. Adherence [must meet one listed below]: 

Page **2** of **13** 

--- end of page.page_number=2 ---

   - i. Medications processed on the medical benefit: consistent utilization (at least 80% of days covered) history documented in claims history or chart notes. 

   - ii. Medications processed on the pharmacy benefit: consistent (at least 80% of days covered) fill history electronically or verbally from the pharmacy. 

- II. Inflammatory bowel disease [must meet all listed below]: 

## A. Crohn’s Disease 

1. Age: at least 12 years. 

2. Diagnosis and severity: moderate to severe active Crohn’s disease. 

3. Other therapies: A trial of one disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drug below is required unless all are contraindicated. Trial must result in an inadequate response after four consecutive months of use per medication or a severe adverse reaction. 

   - a. Chronic traditional disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drug: azathioprine, methotrexate. 

   - b. Exceptions: skipping the requirements of “3 _. Other therapies”_ are allowed if the patient exhibits severe or fulminant disease (see Appendix I). 

4. Dosage regimen 

   - a. Yesintek, Selarsdi, ustekinumab-ttwe, Stelara intravenous and subcutaneous (ustekinumab IV, SQ): 

|**Age**|**Loading Dose IV**|**Maintenance dose SQ**|
|---|---|---|
|Adult and<br>Pediatric, ≥ 12<br>years|< 55 kg: 260 mg<br>> 55 kg – 85 kg: 390 mg<br>> 85 kg:  520 mg|90 mg every eight weeks|



- b. Skyrizi intravenous and subcutaneous (risankizumab IV, SQ): 

|**Age **|**Loading Dose IV**|**Maintenance Dose SQ**|
|---|---|---|
|Adult|600 mg at weeks zero, four,<br>and eight.|360 mg at week twelve and<br>every eight weeks thereafter|



## c. Tremfya intravenous and subcutaneous (guselkumab) 

|**Age**|**Loading Dose IV or SQ**|**Maintenance Dose SQ***|
|---|---|---|
|Adult|200 mg IV at weeks zero,<br>four, and eight.<br>OR<br>400 mg SQ 400 mg at weeks<br>zero, four, and eight|100 mg every 8 weeks<br>beginning at week 16<br>OR<br>200 mg every 4 weeks<br>beginning at week 12.|



_*Use lowest effective dosage to maintain therapeutic response._ 

## B. Ulcerative Colitis 

1. Age: 

Page **3** of **13** 

--- end of page.page_number=3 ---

   - a. Skyrizi: at least 18 years. 

   - b. Yesintek, Selarsdi, ustekinumab-ttwe, Stelara: at least 12 years. 

   - c. Tremfya: at least 18 years. 

2. Diagnosis and severity: moderate to severe active Ulcerative Colitis. 

3. Other therapies: Trials of one conventional therapy and one disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drug below are required unless all are contraindicated. Trial must result in an inadequate response after four consecutive months of use per medication or severe adverse reaction. 

   - a. Conventional therapy: mesalamine. 

   - b. Chronic traditional disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drug: azathioprine. 

   - c. Exceptions: skipping the requirements of “ _3 Other therapies”_ are allowed if patient exhibits severe or fulminant disease (see Appendix I). 

4. Dosage regimen 

   - a. Yesintek, Selarsdi, ustekinumab-ttwe,Stelara intravenous and subcutaneous (ustekinumab IV, SQ): 

|**Age**|**Loading Dose IV**|**Maintenance Dose SQ**|
|---|---|---|
|Adult and<br>pediatric, ≥ 12<br>years|< 55 kg: 260 mg<br>> 55 kg to 85 kg: 390 mg<br>> 85 kg:  520 mg|90 mg every eight weeks|



- b. Skyrizi intravenous and subcutaneous (risankizumab IV, SQ): 

|**Age**|**Loading Dose IV**|**Maintenance Dose SQ**|
|---|---|---|
|Adult|1,200 mg weeks zero,<br>four, and eight|180 to 360 mg* at week twelve,<br>then every eight weeks|



_*Must complete 6 months of 180 mg every twelve weeks dosage and determine that there was an insufficient response before increasing to 360 mg every eight weeks._ 

- c. Tremfya intravenous and subcutaneous (guselkumab IV, SQ): 

|**Age**|**Loading Dose**<br>**IV**|**Maintenance Dose SQ**|
|---|---|---|
|Adult|200 mg weeks<br>zero, four, and<br>eight|100 mg every eight weeks beginning at week 16<br>OR<br>200 mg every four weeks beginning at week 12*.|



_*Must complete 6 months of 100 mg every eight weeks dosage and determine that there was an insufficient response before increasing to 200 mg every four weeks._ 

## III. Rheumatology 

- A. Rheumatoid Arthritis [must meet all listed below]: 

   1. Age: at least 18 years. 

Page **4** of **13** 

--- end of page.page_number=4 ---

   2. Diagnosis and severity: moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis. 

   3. Other therapies: Trials of two disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drug below are required unless all are contraindicated. Trial must result in an inadequate response after four consecutive months of use per medication or severe adverse reaction. 

      - a. Disease modifying anti-rheumatic drugs: leflunomide, methotrexate, hydroxychloroquine, sulfasalazine. 

   4. Dosage regimen. 

      - a. Actemra intravenous (tocilzumab IV): 4 mg per Kg every four weeks; increase to 8 mg per Kg with inadequate response (maximum 800 mg). 

- B. Psoriatic Arthritis [must meet all listed below]: 

   1. Age: 

      - a. Cosentyx subcutaneous (secukinumab SQ): at least two years. 

      - b. Skyrizi subcutaneous (risankizumab SQ): at least 18 years. 

      - c. Yesintek, Selarsdi, ustekinumab-ttwe, Stelara subcutaneous (ustekinumab SQ): at least six years. 

      - d. Tremfya subcutaneous (guselkumab SQ): at least 18 years. 

   2. Diagnosis and severity: active Psoriatic Arthritis 

   3. Other therapies: Trials of two from the appropriate category below are required unless all are contraindicated. Trial must result in an inadequate response after four consecutive months of use per medication or severe adverse reaction. 

      - a. Peripheral disease: chronic traditional disease modifying antirheumatic drug: methotrexate, leflunomide, sulfasalazine. 

      - b. Axial disease, enthesitis, dactylitis and uveitis: nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. 

   4. Dosage regimen: 

      - a. Cosentyx subcutaneous (secukinumab SQ): 

|**Age**|**Weight**|**Optional Loading Doses**|**Maintenance Dose**|
|---|---|---|---|
|Adult|NA|150 mg weekly x five doses|150 mg every four weeks<br>(May increase to 300 mg if<br>inadequate response).|
|Adult with<br>coexistent<br>moderate to<br>severe plaque<br>psoriasis|NA|300 mg weekly x five doses|300 mg every four weeks|
|Pediatric, ≥ 2<br>years|15 to<br>< 50 kg|75 mg weekly x five doses|75 mg every four weeks|
||≥50 kg|150 mg weekly x five doses|150 mg every 4 weeks|



Page **5** of **13** 

--- end of page.page_number=5 ---

## b. Cosentyx intravenous (secukinumab IV): 

   - i. Adults: 

      - (a) With a loading dose: 6 mg per kg week zero, then 1.75 mg/kg (maximum 300 mg) every four weeks. 

      - (b) Without a loading dose: 1.75 mg per kg (maximum 300 mg) every four weeks. 

- c. Yesintek, Selarsdi, ustekinumab-ttwe, Stelara subcutaneous (ustekinumab SQ): 

|**Age**|**Weight**|**Loading Doses**|**Maintenance Dose**|
|---|---|---|---|
|Adult|NA|45 mg at weeks zero and<br>four|45 mg every twelve<br>weeks|
|Adult with<br>coexistent<br>moderate to<br>severe plaque<br>psoriasis|> 100 kg|90 mg at weeks zero and<br>four|90 mg every twelve<br>weeks|
|Pediatric, ≥ 6<br>years|< 60 kg|0.75 mg per kg weeks<br>zero and four|0.75 mg per kg every<br>twelve weeks|
||≥ 60 kg|45 mg weeks zero and<br>four|45 mg every twelve<br>weeks|



      - d. Tremfya subcutaneous (guselkumab SQ): 

         - i. Adults only, 18 years and older: 100 mg weeks zero, four, and then every eight weeks. 

      - e. Skyrizi subcutaneous (risankizumab SQ): 

         - i. Adults only, 18 years and older: 150 mg week zero, four then every twelve weeks. 

- C. Axial spondyloarthritis (ankylosing spondylitis and nonradiographic axial spondyloarthritis) [must meet all listed below]: 

   1. Age: at least 18 years. 

   2. Diagnosis and severity: active ankylosing spondylitis or nonradiographic axial spondyloarthritis 

   3. Other therapies: Trials of two non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and one diseasemodifying anti-rheumatic drug listed below are required unless all are contraindicated. Trial must result in an inadequate response after four consecutive months of use per medication or severe adverse reaction: 

      - a. Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory Agents: Prescription agents (e.g., meloxicam, celecoxib, nabumetone) 

      - b. Peripheral dominant disease only: First-line disease modifying anti-rheumatic drugs: methotrexate, sulfasalazine. 

   4. Dosage regimen: 

Page **6** of **13** 

--- end of page.page_number=6 ---

      - a. Cosentyx subcutaneous (secukinumab SQ): 150 mg weekly for five doses, then 150mg every four weeks. 

         - i. Ankylosing spondylitis: may increase to 300 mg every four weeks if inadequate response. 

      - b. Cosentyx intravenous (secukinumab IV), adults only: 

         - i. With a loading dose: 6 mg/kg week zero, then 1.75 mg per kg (maximum 300 mg) every four weeks. 

         - ii. Without a loading dose: 1.75 mg per kg (maximum 300 mg) every four weeks. 

- D. Polyarticular and systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis [must meet all listed below]: 

   1. Age: at least two years. 

   2. Diagnosis and severity: moderate to severe active Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis. 

   3. Other therapies: Trials of two disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs below are required unless all are contraindicated. Trial must result in an inadequate response after four consecutive months of use per medication or severe adverse reaction. 

      - a. Disease modifying anti-rheumatic drugs: methotrexate, leflunomide. 

   4. Dosage regimen: Actemra Intravenous (tocilizumab IV). 

|**Weight**|**Dose**|**Frequency**|
|---|---|---|
|<30 kg|10 mg per kg|Every four weeks|
|≥ 30 kg|8 mg per kg,<br>maximum of 800 mg<br>per dose|Every four weeks|



## IV. Dermatology. 

- A. Plaque Psoriasis [must meet all listed below]: 

   1. Age: at least six years. 

   2. Diagnosis and severity: moderate to severe chronic plaque psoriasis. 

      - a. Duration: chronic plaque psoriasis greater than six months. 

      - b. Severity [must meet one listed below]: 

         - i. Body Surface area: at least 10% 

         - ii. Severe at localized sites and associated with significant functional impairment (e.g., involvement of high-impact and difficult to treat sites such as the face, palms, soles, flexures, and genitals). 

   3. Other therapies: Trials of two local therapies and one systemic therapy below are required unless all are contraindicated. Trials must result in an inadequate response after four consecutive months of use per medication or a severe adverse reaction. 

Page **7** of **13** 

--- end of page.page_number=7 ---

   - a. Local therapies: topical (steroids, vitamin D analogs, coal tar, dithranol), phototherapy, photo chemotherapy. 

   - b. Systemic therapy: cyclosporine, methotrexate. 

4. Dosing regimen: 

   - a. Cosentyx subcutaneous (secukinumab SQ): 300 mg weekly times five, then 150mg every four weeks (may increase to 300 mg if inadequate response). 

   - b. Yesintek, Selarsdi, ustekinumab-ttwe, Stelara subcutaneous (ustekinumab SQ): 

|**Age**|**Weight**|**Loading Doses**|**Maintenance Dose**|
|---|---|---|---|
|Adults|≤ 100 kg|45 mg at weeks zero and four|45 mg every twelve<br>weeks|
||> 100 kg|90 mg at weeks zero and four|90 mg every twelve<br>weeks|
|Pediatric,<br>≥ 6 years|< 60 kg|0.75 mg per kg weeks zero and four|0.75 mg per kg every<br>twelve weeks|
||≥ 60 kg|45 mg weeks zero and four|45 mg every twelve<br>weeks|



## c. Skyrizi (risankizumab): 

   - i. Adults only, 18 years and older: 150 mg at weeks zero, four, and then every twelve weeks thereafter. 

- d. Tremfya subcutaneous (guselkumab SQ): 

   - i. Adults only, 18 years and older: 100 mg weeks zero, four, and then every eight weeks thereafter. 

## B. Hidradenitis Suppurativa 

1. Age: at least 18 years 

2. Diagnosis and severity: moderate to severe Hidradenitis Suppirativa. 

3. Other therapies: Trials of one local therapy and one systemic therapy below are required unless all are contraindicated. Trial must result in an inadequate response after four consecutive months of use per medication or a severe adverse reaction. 

   - a. Local therapies: topical clindamycin (mild diagnosis), intra-lesional triamcinolone. 

   - b. Systemic therapies: clindamycin plus rifampicin (both 300 mg twice daily orally), acitretin, finasteride or spironolactone (female patients), cyclosporine, dapsone. 

4. Dosage regimen: 

   - a. Cosentyx subcutaneous (secukinumab SQ): 300 mg weekly times five, then 300mg every four weeks (may increase to 300 mg every 2 weeks if inadequate response). 

## **4.0 Coding:** 

Page **8** of **13** 

--- end of page.page_number=8 ---

## **COVERED CODES - MEDICAL BENEFIT** 

|**COVERED CODES - MEDICAL BENEFIT**|**COVERED CODES - MEDICAL BENEFIT**|**COVERED CODES - MEDICAL BENEFIT**|**COVERED CODES - MEDICAL BENEFIT**|**COVERED CODES - MEDICAL BENEFIT**|
|---|---|---|---|---|
|**HCPCS Code**|<br>**Brand Name**|**Generic Name**|**Billing**<br>**(1 Unit)**|**Prior**<br>**Approval**|
|J3358|Stelara IV|ustekinumab|1 mg|Y<br>Excluded<br>effective<br>8/12/25|
|J3262|Actemra IV|tocilizumab|1 mg|Y|
|J2327|Skyrizi IV|risankizumab|1 mg|Y|
|J3247|CosentxyIV|secukinumab|1 mg|Y|
|J1628*|Tremfya IV|guselkumab|1 mg|Y|
|Q9998*|Selarsdi IV or SC|ustekinumab|1 mg|Y|
|Q5100*|Yesintek IV or SC|ustekinumab|1 mg|Y|



*IV formulation is covered on the medical benefit with prior authorization. Subcutaneous formulation is excluded from coverage on the medical benefit. 

## **COVERED PRODUCTS - PHARMACY BENEFIT** 

|is excluded from coverage on the medical benefit.|is excluded from coverage on the medical benefit.|is excluded from coverage on the medical benefit.|
|---|---|---|
|**COVERED PRODUCTS - PHARMACY BENEFIT**|||
|**Brand Name**|**Generic Name**|**Prior**<br>**Approval**|
|Cosentyx SC|secukinumab|Y|
|Stelara SC|ustekinumab|Y<br>Excluded<br>Effective<br>8/12/25|
|Skyrizi SC|risankizumab|Y|
|Tremfya SC|guselkumab|Y|
|Selarsdi SC|ustekinumab|Y|
|Yesintek SC|ustekinumab|Y|
|ustekinumab-ttwe SC (by Quallent)<br>NDC: 82009-160-11<br>82009-162-11|<br>ustekinumab-ttwe|Y|



|||||
|---|---|---|---|
||**EXCLUDED CODES AND PRODUCTS**|||
|**HCPCS Code**|**Brand Name**|**Generic Name**|**Benefit Plan**<br>**Reference/Reason**|
|J1628*|Tremfya SC|guselkumab|Covered on the pharmacy<br>benefit withprior approval|
|J3245|Ilumya SC|tidrakizumab|Not a Preferred agent|
|J3262|Actemra SC|tocilizumab|Not a Preferred agent|
|J3357|Stelara SC|ustekinumab|Covered on the pharmacy<br>benefit with prior approval<br>Effective 8/12/25: excluded<br>from medical and pharmacy<br>benefit|



Page **9** of **13** 

--- end of page.page_number=9 ---

## **EXCLUDED CODES AND PRODUCTS** 

|**EXCLUDED CODES AND PRODUCTS**|**EXCLUDED CODES AND PRODUCTS**|**EXCLUDED CODES AND PRODUCTS**|**EXCLUDED CODES AND PRODUCTS**|
|---|---|---|---|
|**HCPCS Code**|**Brand Name**|**Generic Name**|**Benefit Plan**<br>**Reference/Reason**|
|NA|Kevzara SC|sarilumab|Not a Preferred agent|
|NA|Siliq SC|brodalumab|Not a Preferred agent|
|NA|Taltz SC|ixekizumab|Not a Preferred agent|
|Q5103|Tofidence SC|tocilizumab-bavi|Not a Preferred agent|
|NA|Tyenne SC|tocilizumab-aazg|Not a Preferred agent|
|NA|Bimzelx|bimekizumab|Not a Preferred agent|
|Q9999|Otulfi|ustekinumab-aauz|Not a Preferred agent|
|Q9997|Pyzchiva IV|ustekinumab-ttwe|Not a Preferred agent|
|Q9996|Pyzchiva SC|ustekinumab-ttwe|Not a Preferred agent|
|Q5099|Steqeyma|ustekinumab-stba|Not a Preferred agent|
|Q5137|Wezlana|ustekinumab-auub|Not a Preferred agent|
|J3590‡|Imuldosa|usetekinumab-srlf|Not a Preferred agent|
||Starjemza|ustekinumab-hmny|Not a Preferred agent|



- *IV formulation is covered on the medical benefit with prior authorization. Subcutaneous formulation is excluded from coverage on the medical benefit. 

- Unclassified biologics. If the listed drugs receive a new HCPCS code, it is understood that the new code would be excluded. 

## **5.0 References, Citations & Resources:** 

1. Lexi comp Online®, Lexi-Drugs® , Hudson, Ohio: Lexi-Comp, Inc.; Cosentyx, Stelara, Actemra, Skyrizi, Tremfya accessed August 2024. 

2. Secukinumab in Plaque Psoriasis – results of two phase 3 trials. NEJM 2014; 371:326-338. 

3. Ustekinumab induction and maintenance therapy in refractory Crohn’s disease. NEJM 2012;367:1519-1528. 

4. Comparison of ustekinumab and etanercept for moderate-to-severe psoriasis. NEJM 2010; 362(2):118-28. 

5. Ustekinumab inhibits radiographic progression in patients with active psoriatic arthritis: results from the phase 3 PSUMMIT-1 and PSUMMIT-2 trials. Ann Rheum Dis. 2014;73(6):1000-6. 

6. 3[rd] European evidence-based consensus on the diagnosis and management of Crohn’s disease 2016: Part 1: Diagnosis and medical management. Journal of Crohn’s and Colitis. 2017; 11:3-25. 

7. British Association of Dermatologists guidelines for the biological therapy for psoriasis 2017;177(3):628-36. 

8. Clinical Practice Guidelines for the treatment of patients with axial spondyloarthritis and psoriatic arthritis. Madrid, (Spain): Spanish Society of Rheumatology (SER);2015. 

**6.0 Appendices:** 

Page **10** of **13** 

--- end of page.page_number=10 ---

## See pages 12-13. 

## **7.0 Revision History:** 

## Original Effective Date: 06/24/2015 

## Next Review Date: 08/24/2023 

|**Revision Date**|**Reason for Revision**|
|---|---|
|4/19|Moving to new format|
|7/19|Opened for annual review by P&T Committee; abbreviations replaced|
|9/19|Added Skyrizi, Deleted prescriber|
|2/20|Off cycle review: Tremfya added to formulary, added Appendix I, added Stelara<br>UC indication and additional J code|
|6/20|Annual review: replaced abbreviation, added diagnosis of Axial Spondyloarthritis<br>(non-radiographic), and juvenile idiopathic arthritis, clarified language/instruction<br>for other therapies and exclusions, added Stelara Pediatric dosing, approved by<br>P&T Committee 8/26/20.|
|2/21|Off cycle review, added Tremfya to PA diagnosis, removed scalp from severity of<br>PP, clarified criteria instructions, added appropriate use section|
|6/21|Annual review, reformatted, clarified instructions, added compendium for non-<br>FDA approved use|
|2/22|Annual review requested to open early; added Skyrizi for psoriatic arthritis,<br>updated indication table, added to FDA approved(including newly approved<br>indications not listed above); removed highlighting from changes|
|4/22|Off-cycle review requested by Ann Hunt Fugate, formatting change; separated<br>other therapies for CD and UC removed MTX for UC and mesalamine for CD<br>Combine sections for ankylosing spondylitis and nonradiographic axial<br>spondyloarthritis and clarified other therapies;|
|6/23|Annual review: Added general considerations for use section, clarified “other<br>therapies” language, updated coding, updated FDA indications table, moved<br>excluded drugs to general considerations for use section|
|2/24|Off-cycle review; Cosentyx coding by NDC removed, Appendix III: Monitoring &<br>Patient Safetyremoved.|
|5/24|Off-cycle review; Added Hidradenitis Suppurativa section. Added Tofidence<br>(tocilizumab-bavi SC) and Tyenne (tocilizumab-aazg SC) to excluded agents in<br>bodyofpolicyand codingsection.|
|7/24|Annual review;added Cosentyx IV|
|8/24|Off-cycle review, Added Tremfya dosing for ulcerative colitis secondary to<br>expanded FDA approval.|
|4/25|Off-cycle review; added CD dosing for Tremfya, added Bimzelx to excluded<br>coding and policy body to align with PDL|
|6/25|Off-cycle review; addition of Stelara biosimilars|



Page **11** of **13** 

--- end of page.page_number=11 ---

## - Appendix I International Definitions of Disease Activity 

**==> picture [497 x 361] intentionally omitted <==**

Page **12** of **13** 

--- end of page.page_number=12 ---

## Appendix II: FDA Approved Indications 

|FDA<br>Approved<br>Indications|Inflamma-<br>tory Bowel<br>Disease|Plaque<br>Psoriasis|Juvenile<br>idiopathic<br>arthritis|Rheum-<br>atoid<br>Arthritis|Psoriatic<br>Arthritis|Axial<br>Spondylo-<br>arthritis<br>(AS, NSpA)|Giant Cell<br>Arteritis|Interstitial<br>Lung<br>Disease|Cytokine<br>Release<br>Syndrome|Hidradenitis<br>Suppurativa|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|Actemra IV|||X (P)|X|||X|X|X (P)||
|Cosentyx<br>SC||X (P)|||X (P)|X||||X|
|Cosentyx<br>IV|||||X|X|||||
|Stelara &<br>biosimilars<br>IV/SC|X (P)|X (P)|||X (P)||||||
|Skyrizi SC|X|X|||X||||||
|Tremfya<br>SC|X|X|||X||||||
|Actemra<br>SC|||X (P)|X|||X|X|||
|Kevzara<br>SC||||X|||||||
|Siliq SC||X|||||||||
|Taltz SC||X (P)|||X|X|||||
|Ilumya SC||X|||||||||



_AS: ankylosing spondylitis, CD: Crohn’s Disease, P: Pediatric indication, NSpA:nonradiographic axial spondyloarthritis, UC: Ulcerative Colitis_ 

Page **13** of **13** 

--- end of page.page_number=13 ---
