**==> picture [108 x 21] intentionally omitted <==**

|**Clinical Policy Title:**|ustekinumab|
|---|---|
|**Policy Number:**|RxA.747|
|**Drug(s) Applied:**|Stelara®|
|**Original Policy Date:**|04/18/2022|
|**Last Review Date:**|12/05/2024|
|**Line of Business Policy Applies to:**|All lines of business (except Medicare)|



## **Criteria** 

## **I. Initial Approval Criteria** 

- **A. Plaque Psoriasis** (must meet all): 

   1. Diagnosis of Plaque Psoriasis (PsO); 

   2. Trial and failure of ≥ 3 months of at least one (1) conventional systemic therapy, unless contraindicated or clinically significant adverse effects are experienced: 

      - a. Methotrexate [MTX] 

      - b. Cyclosporine 

      - c. Acitretin 

      - d. Phototherapy (psoralen plus ultraviolet A light [PUVA]). 

## **Approval Duration** 

**All Lines of Business (except Medicare):** 12 months 

- **B. Psoriatic Arthritis** (must meet all): 

   1. Diagnosis of PsA. 

## **Approval Duration** 

**All Lines of Business (except Medicare):** 12 months 

- **C. Ulcerative Colitis** (must meet all) **:** 

   1. Diagnosis of UC; 

   2. Member meets one of the following (a or b): 

      - a. Trial and failure of ≥ 3 months of at least one (1) conventional agent (azathioprine, 6- 

         - mercaptopurine, aminosalicylate) unless contraindicated or clinically significant adverse effects are experienced; 

      - b. Trial and failure of corticosteroid treatment (e.g., prednisone, methylprednisolone, budesonide) unless contraindicated or significant adverse effects experienced. 

## **Approval duration** 

**All Lines of Business (except Medicare):** 12 months 

- **D. Crohn’s Disease** (must meet all) **:** 

   1. Diagnosis of Crohn’s Disease (CD); 

   2. Member meets one of the following (a or b): 

      - a. Trial and failure of a ≥ 3 months of at least one (1) conventional systemic therapy (e.g., azathioprine, 

This clinical policy has been developed to authorize, modify, or determine coverage for individuals with similar conditions. Specific care and treatment may vary depending on individual need and benefits covered by the plan. This policy is not intended to dictate to providers how to practice medicine, nor does it constitute a contract or guarantee regarding payment or results.  This document may contain prescription brand name drugs that are trademarks of pharmaceutical manufacturers that are not affiliated with RxAdvance. 

© 2024 RxAdvance Corporation. All rights reserved.  This policy contains the confidential and proprietary information of RxAdvance.  Unauthorized reproduction, distribution, modification, display, storage, transmission, or use of this policy or any information contained herein is strictly prohibited. Revised 11/2024 Page 1 of 3 

_v 2.0.01.1_ 

--- end of page.page_number=1 ---

**==> picture [108 x 30] intentionally omitted <==**

   - 6-mercaptopurine [6-MP], methotrexate [MTX]), unless contraindicated or clinically significant adverse effects are experienced; 

- b. Trial and failure of corticosteroid treatment (e.g., prednisone, methylprednisolone, budesonide), unless contraindicated or significant adverse effects experienced. 

## **Approval Duration** 

**All Lines of Business (except Medicare):** 12 months 

## **II. Continued Therapy Approval** 

- **A. All Indications in Section I** (must meet all) **:** 

   1. Member is currently receiving medication that has been authorized by RxAdvance or the member has met initial approval criteria. 

## **Approval Duration** 

**All Lines of Business (except Medicare):** 12 months 

## **References** 

1. Lichtenstein GR, Loftus Jr. EV, Isaacs KI, Regueiro MD, Gerson LB, and Sands BE. ACG clinical guideline: management of Crohn’s disease in adults. Am J Gastroenterol. 2018; 113:481-517. Available at: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/29610508/. Accessed November 25, 2024. 

2. Menter A, Gottlieb A, Feldman SR, et al. American Academy of Dermatology. Guidelines of care for the management of psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis. Section 1. Overview of psoriasis and guidelines of care for the treatment of - 

psoriasis with biologics. J Am Acad Dermatol. 2008; 58:826-850. Available at: https://www.jaad.org/article/S0190 9622(08)00273-9/fulltext. Accessed November 25, 2024. 

3. Gottlieb A, Korman NJ, Gordon KB, et al. Guidelines of care for the management of psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis: Section 2. Psoriatic arthritis: Overview and guidelines of care for treatment with an emphasis on the biologics. Journal of the American Academy of Dermatology. 2008;58(5):851-864. Available at: 

https://www.jaad.org/article/S0190-9622(08)00274-0/fulltext. Accessed November 25, 2024. 

4. Menter A, Korman NF, Elmets CA, et al. American Academy of Dermatology. Guidelines of care for the management of psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis. Section 4. Guidelines of care for the management and treatment of psoriasis with traditional systemic agents. J Am Acad Dermatol. 10.1016/j.jaad.2009.03.027. Available at: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/19493586/. Accessed November 25, 2024. 

5. Menter A, Korman, NJ, Elmets CA, et al. American Academy of Dermatology. Guidelines of care for the management of psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis. Section 3. Guidelines of care for the management and treatment of psoriasis with topical therapies. J Am Acad Dermatol. 2009; 60:643-659. Available at: 

   - https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/19217694/. Accessed November 25, 2024. 

6. Singh JA, Guyatt G, Ogdie A, et al. 2018 American College of Rheumatology/National Psoriasis Foundation Guideline for the treatment of psoriatic arthritis. American College of Rheumatology. 2019; 71(1):5-32. doi: 10.1002/art.40726. Available at: https://ard.bmj.com/content/79/6/700.1. Accessed November 25, 2024. 

|**Review/Revision History**|**Review/Revision Date**|**P&T Approval Date**|
|---|---|---|
|RxA.592.Biologic_DMARDs was last reviewed and updated<br>on 01/05/2022 and archived on 04/18/2022. For details,<br>please refer to RxA.592.Biologic_DMARDs.|01/05/2022|04/18/2022|
|Drug specific policy for Stelara was created based on<br>RxA.592.Biologic_DMARDs|02/16/2022|04/18/2022|



© 2024 RxAdvance Corporation. All rights reserved.  This policy contains the confidential and proprietary information of RxAdvance.  Unauthorized reproduction, distribution, modification, display, storage, transmission, or use of this policy or any information contained herein is strictly prohibited. Revised 11/2024 Page 2 of 3 

Page 2 of 3 

_v 2.0.01.1_ 

--- end of page.page_number=2 ---

**==> picture [108 x 30] intentionally omitted <==**

|1. Initial Approval Criteria, I.A.4: Updated to remove<br>Medical justification supports inability to use<br>immunomodulators (see Appendix D).<br>2. Initial Approval Criteria, 1.B.4: Updated trial and<br>failure criteria to rephrase and include phototherapy<br>(psoralen plus ultraviolet A light [PUVA]).<br>3. References were reviewed and updated.|||
|---|---|---|
|Policy was reviewed:<br>1. Initial Approval Criteria, I.C.3: Updated age criteria<br>from Age≥18 years to Age≥6 years.<br>2. References were reviewed and updated.|09/16/2022|10/19/2022|
|Policy was reviewed:<br>1. Removed prior age criteria.<br>2. Removed prior dosing criteria.<br>3. Updated approval duration.<br>4. Removed reauthorization requirement for positive<br>response to therapy.<br>5. References were reviewed and updated.|11/16/2023|01/01/2024|
|Policy was reviewed:<br>1. Exception: If one biologic DMARD that is FDA-approved<br>for plaque psoriasis has been previously tried, then trial<br>of a conventional systemic agent or phototherapy is not<br>required;|3/1/2024|3/1/2024|
|Policy was reviewed:<br>1. Removed prescriber restrictions.<br>2. Updated Continued therapy approval to “Member is<br>currently receiving medication that has been<br>authorized..”<br>3. References were reviewed and updated.|11/25/2024|12/5/2024|



© 2024 RxAdvance Corporation. All rights reserved.  This policy contains the confidential and proprietary information of RxAdvance.  Unauthorized reproduction, distribution, modification, display, storage, transmission, or use of this policy or any information contained herein is strictly prohibited. Revised 11/2024 Page 3 of 3 

_v 2.0.01.1_ 

--- end of page.page_number=3 ---
