**==> picture [141 x 45] intentionally omitted <==**

## **UnitedHealthcare[®] Commercial Medical Benefit Drug Policy** 

## **Tremfya[® ] (Guselkumab)** 

**Policy Number** : 2025D0134B **Effective Date** : May 1, 2025 

 Instructions for Use 

|**Policy Number**:2025D0134B<br>**Effective Date**:May 1, 2025| Instructions for Use|
|---|---|
|**Table of Contents**<br>**Page**<br>Coverage Rationale .............................................................. 1<br>Applicable Codes .................................................................. 2<br>Background ........................................................................... 4<br>Benefit Considerations.......................................................... 4<br>Clinical Evidence................................................................... 4<br>U.S. Food and Drug Administration ...................................... 5<br>References............................................................................ 5<br>Policy History/Revision Information ...................................... 6<br>Instructions for Use............................................................... 6|**Related Commercial Policies**|
||•<br>Maximum Dosage and Frequency<br>•<br>Provider Administered Drugs–Site of Care<br>•<br>Self-Administered Medications|
||**Community Plan Policy**|
||<br>•<br>Tremfya®(Guselkumab)|
|||



## **Coverage Rationale** 

 See Benefit Considerations 

This policy refers to Tremfya (guselkumab) injection for intravenous use. Tremfya (guselkumab) for self-administered subcutaneous injection is obtained under the pharmacy benefit. 

## **Ulcerative Colitis (UC)** 

## **Tremfya is proven for the treatment of ulcerative colitis when all of the following criteria are met:** 

- Diagnosis of moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis; **and** 

- Tremfya is to be administered as three intravenous induction doses; **and** 

- Tremfya induction dosing is in accordance with the U.S FDA labeled dosing for UC; **and** 

- Patient is not receiving Tremfya in combination with another targeted immunomodulator [e.g., adalimumab, Cimzia (certolizumab), Enbrel (etanercept), Entyvio (vedolizumab), Olumiant (baricitinib), Omvoh (mirikizumab-mrkz), Orencia (abatacept), Rinvoq (upadacitinib), Simponi (golimumab), Skyrizi (risankizumab), ustekinumab, Xeljanz (tofacitinib)]; **and** 

- Authorization will be issued for 3 induction doses 

## **Tremfya is medically necessary for the treatment of ulcerative colitis when all of the following criteria are met:** 

- Diagnosis of moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis; **and** 

- **One** of the following: 

   - Patient has had prior or concurrent inadequate response to a therapeutic course of oral corticosteroids and/or immunosuppressants (e.g., azathioprine, 6-mercaptopurine); **or** 

   - Patient has been previously treated with a targeted immunomodulator FDA-approved for the treatment of ulcerative colitis [e.g., adalimumab, Entyvio (vedolizumab), Omvoh (mirikizumab-mrkz), Rinvoq (upadacitinib), Simponi (golimumab), Skyrizi (risankizumab), ustekinumab, Xeljanz (tofacitinib)] 

## **and** 

- Tremfya is to be administered as three intravenous induction doses; **and** 

- Tremfya induction dosing is in accordance with the U.S FDA labeled dosing for UC; **and** 

- Patient is not receiving Tremfya in combination with another targeted immunomodulator [e.g., adalimumab, Cimzia (certolizumab), Enbrel (etanercept), Entyvio (vedolizumab), Olumiant (baricitinib), Omvoh (mirikizumab-mrkz), Orencia (abatacept), Rinvoq (upadacitinib), Simponi (golimumab), Skyrizi (risankizumab), ustekinumab, Xeljanz (tofacitinib)]; **and** 

- Prescribed by or in consultation with a gastroenterologist; **and** 

- Authorization will be issued for 3 induction doses 

Tremfya[®] (Guselkumab) UnitedHealthcare Commercial Medical Benefit Drug Policy **Proprietary Information of UnitedHealthcare. Copyright 2025 United HealthCare Services, Inc.** 

Page 1 of 7 Effective 05/01/2025 

--- end of page.page_number=1 ---

## **Crohn’s Disease (CD)** 

**Tremfya is proven for the treatment of Crohn’s disease (CD) when all of the following criteria are met:** 

- Diagnosis of moderately to severely active Crohn’s disease; **and** 

- Tremfya is to be administered as three intravenous induction doses; **and** 

- Tremfya induction dosing is in accordance with the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) labeled dosing for CD; **and** 

- Patient is not receiving Tremfya in combination with another targeted immunomodulator [e.g., adalimumab, Cimzia (certolizumab), Entyvio (vedolizumab), Omvoh (mirikizumab-mrkz), Rinvoq (upadacitinib), Skyrizi (risankizumab), ustekinumab]; **and** 

- Authorization will be issued for 3 induction doses 

## **Tremfya is medically necessary for the treatment of Crohn’s disease (CD) when all of the following criteria are met:** 

- Diagnosis of moderately to severely active Crohn’s disease; **and** 

- One of the following: 

   - History of failure to **one** of the following conventional therapies at up to maximally indicated doses unless contraindicated or clinically significant adverse effects are experienced: 

      - Corticosteroids (e.g., prednisone, methylprednisolone, budesonide) 

      - 6-mercaptopurine (Purinethol) 

      - Azathioprine (Imuran) 

      - Methotrexate (Rheumatrex, Trexall) 

   - **or** 

   - `o` Patient has been previously treated with a targeted immunomodulator FDA-approved for the treatment of Crohn’s disease [e.g., adalimumab, Cimzia (certolizumab), Entyvio (vedolizumab), Omvoh (mirikizumab-mrkz), Rinvoq (upadacitinib), Skyrizi (risankizumab), ustekinumab] 

   - **and** 

- Tremfya is to be administered as three intravenous induction doses; **and** 

- Tremfya induction dosing is in accordance with the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) labeled dosing for CD; **and** 

- Patient is not receiving Tremfya in combination with another targeted immunomodulator [e.g., adalimumab, Cimzia (certolizumab), Entyvio (vedolizumab), Omvoh (mirikizumab-mrkz), Rinvoq (upadacitinib), Skyrizi (risankizumab), ustekinumab]; **and** 

- Prescribed by or in consultation with a gastroenterologist; **and** 

- Authorization will be issued for 3 induction doses 

## **Applicable Codes** 

The following list(s) of procedure and/or diagnosis codes is provided for reference purposes only and may not be all inclusive. Listing of a code in this policy does not imply that the service described by the code is a covered or non-covered health service. Benefit coverage for health services is determined by the member specific benefit plan document and applicable laws that may require coverage for a specific service. The inclusion of a code does not imply any right to reimbursement or guarantee claim payment. Other Policies and Guidelines may apply. 

|**HCPCS Code**||**Description**|
|---|---|---|
|J1628|Injection, guselkumab,1 mg||
||||
||**National Drug Code**|**How Supplied**|
||57894-0650-02|200 mg/ 20 mL vial|
||||
|**Diagnosis Code**||**Description**|
|K50.00|Crohn's disease of small intestine without complications||
|K50.011|Crohn's disease of small intestine with rectal bleeding||
|K50.012|Crohn's disease of small intestine with intestinal obstruction||
|K50.013|Crohn's disease of small intestine with fistula||
|K50.014|Crohn's disease of small intestine with abscess||
|K50.018|Crohn's disease of small intestine with other complication||



Tremfya[®] (Guselkumab) UnitedHealthcare Commercial Medical Benefit Drug Policy 

Page 2 of 7 Effective 05/01/2025 

**Proprietary Information of UnitedHealthcare. Copyright 2025 United HealthCare Services, Inc.** 

--- end of page.page_number=2 ---

|**Diagnosis Code**|**Description**|
|---|---|
|K50.019|Crohn's disease of small intestine with unspecified complications|
|K50.10|Crohn's disease of large intestine without complications|
|K50.111|Crohn's disease of large intestine with rectal bleeding|
|K50.112|Crohn's disease of large intestine with intestinal obstruction|
|K50.113|Crohn's disease of large intestine with fistula|
|K50.114|Crohn's disease of large intestine with abscess|
|K50.118|Crohn's disease of large intestine with other complication|
|K50.119|Crohn's disease of large intestine with unspecified complications|
|K50.80|Crohn's disease of both small and large intestine without complications|
|K50.811|Crohn's disease of both small and large intestine with rectal bleeding|
|K50.812|Crohn's disease of both small and large intestine with intestinal obstruction|
|K50.813|Crohn's disease of both small and large intestine with fistula|
|K50.814|Crohn's disease of both small and large intestine with abscess|
|K50.818|Crohn's disease of both small and large intestine with other complication|
|K50.819|Crohn's disease of both small and large intestine with unspecified complications|
|K50.90|Crohn's disease,unspecified,without complications|
|K50.911|Crohn's disease,unspecified,with rectal bleeding|
|K50.912|Crohn's disease,unspecified,with intestinal obstruction|
|K50.913|Crohn's disease,unspecified,with fistula|
|K50.914|Crohn's disease,unspecified,with abscess|
|K50.918|Crohn's disease,unspecified,with other complication|
|K50.919|Crohn's disease,unspecified,with unspecified complications|
|K51.00|Ulcerative(chronic) pancolitis without complications|
|K51.011|Ulcerative(chronic) pancolitis with rectal bleeding|
|K51.012|Ulcerative(chronic) pancolitis with intestinal obstruction|
|K51.013|Ulcerative(chronic) pancolitis with fistula|
|K51.014|Ulcerative(chronic) pancolitis with abscess|
|K51.018|Ulcerative(chronic) pancolitis with other complication|
|K51.019|Ulcerative(chronic) pancolitis with unspecified complications|
|K51.20|Ulcerative(chronic) proctitis without complications|
|K51.211|Ulcerative(chronic) proctitis with rectal bleeding|
|K51.212|Ulcerative(chronic) proctitis with intestinal obstruction|
|K51.213|Ulcerative(chronic) proctitis with fistula|
|K51.214|Ulcerative(chronic) proctitis with abscess|
|K51.218|Ulcerative(chronic) proctitis with other complication|
|K51.219|Ulcerative(chronic) proctitis with unspecified complications|
|K51.30|Ulcerative(chronic)recto sigmoiditis without complications|
|K51.311|Ulcerative(chronic)recto sigmoiditis with rectal bleeding|
|K51.312|Ulcerative(chronic)recto sigmoiditis with intestinal obstruction|
|K51.313|Ulcerative(chronic)recto sigmoiditis with fistula|
|K51.314|Ulcerative(chronic)recto sigmoiditis with abscess|
|K51.318|Ulcerative(chronic)recto sigmoiditis with other complication|
|K51.319|Ulcerative(chronic)recto sigmoiditis with unspecified complications|
|K51.40|Inflammatory polyps of colon without complications|
|K51.411|Inflammatory polyps of colon with rectal bleeding|



Tremfya[®] (Guselkumab) UnitedHealthcare Commercial Medical Benefit Drug Policy 

Page 3 of 7 Effective 05/01/2025 

**Proprietary Information of UnitedHealthcare. Copyright 2025 United HealthCare Services, Inc.** 

--- end of page.page_number=3 ---

|**Diagnosis Code**|**Description**|
|---|---|
|K51.412|Inflammatory polyps of colon with intestinal obstruction|
|K51.413|Inflammatory polyps of colon with fistula|
|K51.414|Inflammatory polyps of colon with abscess|
|K51.418|Inflammatory polyps of colon with other complication|
|K51.419|Inflammatory polyps of colon with unspecified complications|
|K51.50|Left sided colitis without complications|
|K51.511|Left sided colitis with rectal bleeding|
|K51.512|Left sided colitis with intestinal obstruction|
|K51.513|Left sided colitis with fistula|
|K51.514|Left sided colitis with abscess|
|K51.518|Left sided colitis with other complication|
|K51.519|Left sided colitis with unspecified complications|
|K51.80|Other ulcerative colitis without complications|
|K51.811|Other ulcerative colitis with rectal bleeding|
|K51.812|Other ulcerative colitis with intestinal obstruction|
|K51.813|Other ulcerative colitis with fistula|
|K51.814|Other ulcerative colitis with abscess|
|K51.818|Other ulcerative colitis with other complication|
|K51.819|Other ulcerative colitis with unspecified complications|
|K51.90|Ulcerative colitis,unspecified,without complications|
|K51.911|Ulcerative colitis,unspecified with rectal bleeding|
|K51.912|Ulcerative colitis,unspecified with intestinal obstruction|
|K51.913|Ulcerative colitis,unspecified with fistula|
|K51.914|Ulcerative colitis,unspecified with abscess|
|K51.918|Ulcerative colitis,unspecified with other complication|
|K51.919|Ulcerative colitis,unspecified with unspecified complications|
|K52.1|Toxicgastroenteritis and colitis|



## **Background** 

Tremfya is a human monoclonal IgG1λ antibody that selectively binds to the p19 subunit of interleukin 23 (IL-23) and inhibits its interaction with the IL-23 receptor. IL-23 is a naturally occurring cytokine that is involved in normal inflammatory and immune responses. Tremfya inhibits the release of proinflammatory cytokines and chemokines. 

## **Benefit Considerations** 

Some Certificates of Coverage allow for coverage of experimental/investigational/unproven treatments for life-threatening illnesses when certain conditions are met. The member specific benefit plan document must be consulted to make coverage decisions for this service. Some states mandate benefit coverage for off-label use of medications for some diagnoses or under some circumstances when certain conditions are met. Where such mandates apply, they supersede language in the benefit document or in the medical or drug policy. 

## **Clinical Evidence** 

## **Proven** 

## _**Ulcerative Colitis**_ 

## **Induction Trial: UC1** 

In the 12-week induction study (UC1; NCT04033445), 701 subjects with moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis were randomized 3:2 to receive either Tremfya 200 mg or placebo by intravenous infusion at Week 0, Week 4, and Week 

Tremfya[®] (Guselkumab) UnitedHealthcare Commercial Medical Benefit Drug Policy 

Page 4 of 7 Effective 05/01/2025 

**Proprietary Information of UnitedHealthcare. Copyright 2025 United HealthCare Services, Inc.** 

--- end of page.page_number=4 ---

8. Disease activity was assessed by the modified Mayo score (mMS), a 3-component Mayo score (0-9) which consists of the following subscores (0 to 3 for each subscore): stool frequency (SFS), rectal bleeding (RBS), and findings on centrally reviewed endoscopy (ES). An ES of 2 was defined by marked erythema, lack of vascular pattern, friability, and/or erosions; an ES of 3 was defined by spontaneous bleeding and ulceration. Enrolled subjects with a mMS between 5 and 9 and an ES of 2 or 3 were classified as having moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis. Subjects with inadequate response, loss of response, or intolerance to corticosteroids, immunomodulators (azathioprine, 6-mercaptopurine), biologic therapy (TNF blockers, vedolizumab), and/or Janus kinase (JAK) inhibitors were enrolled. 

At baseline in UC1, the median mMS was 7, 64% of subjects had severely active disease (mMS ≥ 7), and 68% of subjects had an ES of 3. In UC1, 49% of subjects had previously failed (inadequate response, loss of response, or intolerance) treatment with at least one biologic therapy and/or JAK inhibitor, 48% were biologic and JAK inhibitor naïve, and 3% had previously received but not failed a biologic or JAK inhibitor. The median age was 39 years (ranging from 18 to 79 years); 43% were female; and 72% identified as White, 21% as Asian, 1% as Black or African American, < 1% as American Indian or Alaskan Native, and < 1% as multiple racial groups. 

Enrolled subjects were permitted to use stable doses of oral aminosalicylates, immunomodulators (azathioprine, 6- mercaptopurine, methotrexate), and/or oral corticosteroids (up to 20 mg/day prednisone or equivalent). At baseline, 72% of subjects were receiving aminosalicylates, 21% of subjects were receiving immunomodulators, and 43% of subjects were receiving corticosteroids. Concomitant biologic therapies or JAK inhibitors were not permitted. 

In UC1, the primary endpoint was clinical remission at Week 12 as defined by the mMS. Secondary endpoints at Week 12 included endoscopic improvement, clinical response, and histologic endoscopic mucosal improvement. Clinical remission was achieved in 23% of patients with Tremfya vs. 8% with placebo (treatment difference 15%, 95% CI: 10, 20; p < 0.001). 

## **Maintenance Trial: UC2** 

The maintenance trial (UC2) evaluated 568 subjects who received one of two intravenous Tremfya induction regimens, including the recommended 200 mg regimen, for 12 weeks in Studies UC1 or UC3 (induction dose-finding study) and demonstrated clinical response per mMS after 12 weeks. Subjects were rerandomized to receive a subcutaneous maintenance regimen of either Tremfya 100 mg every 8 weeks, Tremfya 200 mg every 4 weeks, or placebo for up to an additional 44 weeks. 

In UC2, 42% of subjects had failed (inadequate response, loss of response, or intolerance) treatment with one or more biologics or JAK inhibitors. 

The primary endpoint was clinical remission at Week 44 defined by mMS. Secondary endpoints included corticosteroidfree clinical remission, endoscopic improvement, histologic endoscopic mucosal improvement, all at Week 44 and maintenance of clinical remission at Week 44 in subjects who achieved clinical remission 12 weeks after intravenous Tremfya induction treatment. Clinical remission was achieved in 45% of patients with Tremfya 100 mg, 50% with Tremfya 200 mg, and 19% with placebo. Treatment difference vs. placebo was 25% (95% CI: 16, 34; p < 0.001) for Tremfya 100 mg and 30% (95% CI: 21, 38; p < 0.001) for Tremfya 200 mg. 

## **U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)** 

This section is to be used for informational purposes only. FDA approval alone is not a basis for coverage. 

Tremfya is an interleukin-23 antagonist indicated for the treatment of adult patients with: 

- Moderate-to-severe plaque psoriasis who are candidates for systemic therapy or phototherapy 

- Active psoriatic arthritis 

- Moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis 

- Moderately to severely active Crohn’s disease 

## **References** 

1. Tremfya [package insert]. Horsham, PA: Janssen Biotech Inc.; September 2024. 

2. Feuerstein JD, Isaacs KL, Schneider Y, et al. AGA Clinical Practice Guidelines on the Management of Moderate to Severe Ulcerative Colitis. Gastroenterology. 2020 Jan 13. 

3. Rubin DT, Ananthakrishnan AN, Siegel CA, et al. ACG Clinical Guideline: Ulcerative Colitis in Adults. Am J Gastroenterol. 2019 Mar;114(3):384-413.Yese. 

Tremfya[®] (Guselkumab) UnitedHealthcare Commercial Medical Benefit Drug Policy **Proprietary Information of UnitedHealthcare. Copyright 2025 United HealthCare Services, Inc.** 

Page 5 of 7 Effective 05/01/2025 

--- end of page.page_number=5 ---

## **Policy History/Revision Information** 

## **Date** 

## **Summary of Changes** 

> 07/01/2025 **Template Update** 

   - Updated _Benefit Considerations_ section 

- 05/01/2025 **Coverage Rationale** 

   - Added language to indicate: `o` Tremfya is proven for the treatment of Crohn’s disease (CD) when all of the following criteria are met:  Diagnosis of moderately to severely active CD  Tremfya is to be administered as three intravenous induction doses  Tremfya induction dosing is in accordance with the U.S. FDA labeled dosing for CD  Patient is not receiving Tremfya in combination with another targeted immunomodulator [e.g., adalimumab, Cimzia (certolizumab), Entyvio (vedolizumab), Omvoh (mirikizumabmrkz), Rinvoq (upadacitinib), Skyrizi (risankizumab), Stelara (ustekinumab)] 

   - Authorization will be issued for 3 induction doses 

   - `o` Tremfya is medically necessary for the treatment of CD when all of the following criteria are met: 

      - Diagnosis of moderately to severely active CD 

      - One of the following: 

         - History of failure to one of the following conventional therapies at up to maximally indicated doses unless contraindicated or clinically significant adverse effects are experienced: 

**==> picture [5 x 5] intentionally omitted <==**

**==> picture [5 x 5] intentionally omitted <==**

**==> picture [5 x 5] intentionally omitted <==**

**==> picture [5 x 5] intentionally omitted <==**

      - Corticosteroids (e.g., prednisone, methylprednisolone, budesonide) 

      - 6-mercaptopurine (Purinethol) 

      - Azathioprine (Imuran) 

      - Methotrexate (Rheumatrex, Trexall) 

   - Patient has been previously treated with a targeted immunomodulator FDAapproved for the treatment of CD [e.g., adalimumab, Cimzia (certolizumab), Entyvio (vedolizumab), Omvoh (mirikizumab-mrkz), Rinvoq (upadacitinib), Skyrizi (risankizumab), Stelara (ustekinumab)] 

- Tremfya is to be administered as three intravenous induction doses 

- Tremfya induction dosing is in accordance with the U.S. FDA labeled dosing for CD 

- Patient is not receiving Tremfya in combination with another targeted immunomodulator [e.g., adalimumab, Cimzia (certolizumab), Entyvio (vedolizumab), Omvoh (mirikizumabmrkz), Rinvoq (upadacitinib), Skyrizi (risankizumab), Stelara (ustekinumab)] 

- Prescribed by or in consultation with a gastroenterologist 

- Authorization will be issued for 3 induction doses 

## **Applicable Codes** 

- Added ICD-10 diagnosis codes K50.00, K50.011, K50.012, K50.013, K50.014, K50.018, K50.019, K50.10, K50.111, K50.112, K50.113, K50.114, K50.118, K50.119, K50.80, K50.811, K50.812, K50.813, K50.814, K50.818, K50.819, K50.90, K50.911, K50.912, K50.913, K50.914, K50.918, and K50.919 

## **Supporting Information** 

- Updated _FDA_ section to reflect the most current information 

- Archived previous policy version 2025D0134A 

## **Instructions for Use** 

This Medical Benefit Drug Policy provides assistance in interpreting UnitedHealthcare standard benefit plans. When deciding coverage, the member specific benefit plan document must be referenced as the terms of the member specific benefit plan may differ from the standard plan. In the event of a conflict, the member specific benefit plan document governs. Before using this policy, please check the member specific benefit plan document and any applicable federal or state mandates. UnitedHealthcare reserves the right to modify its Policies and Guidelines as necessary. This Medical Benefit Drug Policy is provided for informational purposes. It does not constitute medical advice. 

This Medical Benefit Drug Policy may also be applied to Medicare Advantage plans in certain instances. In the absence of a Medicare National Coverage Determination (NCD), Local Coverage Determination (LCD), or other Medicare coverage 

Tremfya[®] (Guselkumab) UnitedHealthcare Commercial Medical Benefit Drug Policy **Proprietary Information of UnitedHealthcare. Copyright 2025 United HealthCare Services, Inc.** 

Page 6 of 7 Effective 05/01/2025 

--- end of page.page_number=6 ---

guidance, CMS allows a Medicare Advantage Organization (MAO) to create its own coverage determinations, using objective evidence-based rationale relying on authoritative evidence (Medicare IOM Pub. No. 100-16, Ch. 4, §90.5). 

UnitedHealthcare may also use tools developed by third parties, such as the InterQual[®] criteria, to assist us in administering health benefits. UnitedHealthcare Medical Benefit Drug Policies are intended to be used in connection with the independent professional medical judgment of a qualified health care provider and do not constitute the practice of medicine or medical advice. 

Tremfya[®] (Guselkumab) UnitedHealthcare Commercial Medical Benefit Drug Policy 

Page 7 of 7 Effective 05/01/2025 

**Proprietary Information of UnitedHealthcare. Copyright 2025 United HealthCare Services, Inc.** 

--- end of page.page_number=7 ---
