## **MEDICATION COVERAGE POLICY** 

## **PHARMACY AND THERAPEUTICS ADVISORY COMMITTEE** 

**==> picture [210 x 34] intentionally omitted <==**

|**PHARMACY ANDTHERA**|**PEUTICSADVISORYCOMMITTEE**|||
|---|---|---|---|
|**POLICY **|Psoriasis (PsO)|**P & T DATE**|06/20/2024|
|**THERAPEUTIC CLASS**|Dermatology|**REVIEW HISTORY**|06/23, 09/21, 09/20, 02/07,<br>02/08, 06/08, 05/10, 11/12,<br>02/13, 10/14, 05/15, 11/15,<br>02/16, 02/17, 02/18, 05/19,<br>05/20|
|**LOB AFFECTED**|MCL|||



_This policy has been developed through review of medical literature, consideration of medical necessity, generally accepted medical practice standards, and approved by the HPSJ/MVHP Pharmacy and Therapeutic Advisory Committee._ 

Effective 1/1/2022, the Pharmacy Benefit is regulated by Medi-Cal Rx.  Please visit https://medicalrx.dhcs.ca.gov/home/ for portal access, formulary details, pharmacy network information, and updates to the pharmacy benefit.   All medical claims require that an NDC is also submitted with the claim.  If a physician administered medication has a specific assigned CPT code, that code must be billed with the correlating NDC. If there is not a specific CPT code available for a physician administered medication, the use of unclassified CPT codes is appropriate when billed with the correlating NDC. 

##  **OVERVIEW** 

Psoriasis (PsO) is an autoimmune, inflammatory skin disorder that disease that fluctuates between disease remission and relapse. The economic burden of psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis is significant. In 2004, the annual direct and indirect costs of psoriasis was reported to be $1.4 billion.[1] However, in 2013, it was estimated that the annual direct and indirect cost of psoriasis in the United States had increased to $112-$135 billion.[2] This review will examine the treatment guidelines of PsO, the currently available PsO drug products, and their coverage criteria. 

The purpose of this coverage policy is to review the available agents (Table 1) and distinguish where the medications may be billed to. For agents listed for coverage under the medical benefit, this coverage is specific to outpatient coverage only (excludes emergency room and inpatient coverage). 

**Table 1. Available Psoriasis Agents** _(Current as of 4/2024)_ 

||Topical Agents|Topical Agents|||
|---|---|---|---|---|
|**CPT Code**|**Generic Name (Brand Name)**|**Available**<br>**Strengths**|**Pharmacy**<br>**Benefit**|**Outpatient**<br>**Medical**<br>**Benefit**<br>**(Restrictions)**|
||**Topical Corticosteroids (TCS)**||||
|--|Betamethasone Diprop (Augmented)<br>Cream, Oint,Lotion|0.05%|Yes|No|
|--|BetamethasoneDipropLotion|0.05%|Yes|No|
|--|Betamethasone Valerate<br>Cream,Lotion, Oint|0.1%|Yes|No|
|--|Clobetasol Propionate<br>Cream, Oint, Solution|0.05%|Yes|No|
|--|Clobetasol Propionate<br>Shampoo, Gel|0.05%|Yes|No|
|--|Clobetasol PropionateEmollient|0.05%|Yes|No|
|--|Desonide<br>Oint, Cream,Lotion|0.05%|Yes|No|
|--|Fluocinolone Acetonide<br>Lotion, Oil|0.01%, 0.025%|Yes|No|
|--|Fluocinolone Acetonide<br>Cream, Oint|0.025%|Yes|No|
|--|Fluocinolone Acetonide<br>Solution, Oil|0.01%|Yes|No|



Coverage Policy – Dermatology – Psoriasis 

Page 1 

--- end of page.page_number=1 ---

|--|Fluocinonide, Fluocinonide-Emollient<br>Gel, Oint, Cream|0.05%|Yes|No|
|---|---|---|---|---|
|--|Fluocinonide Solution|0.05%|Yes|No|
|--|FluticasonePropionate|0.05%|Yes|No|
|--|Halobetasol Propionate<br>Cream, Oint|0.05%|Yes|No|
|--|Hydrocortisone<br>Cream, Oint,Lotion|0.5%, 1%, 2.5%|Yes|No|
|--|Mometasone Furoate<br>Cream*, Oint|0.1%|Yes|No|
|--|Triamcinolone Acetonide<br>Cream, Ointment,Lotion|0.025%, 0.05%, 0.1%|Yes|No|
||**Topical Calcineurin Inhibitors (TCI)**||||
|--|Pimecrolimus (Elidel) Cream|1%|Yes|No|
|--|Tacrolimus (Protopic) Oint|0.03%, 0,1%|Yes|No|
||**Miscellaneous**||||
|--|Anthralin(Dritho-Crème) Cream|1%|Yes|No|
|--|Calcipotriene (Dovonex) Cream, Oint, Solu|0.005%|Yes|No|
|--|Calcipotriene/ Betamethasone (Taclonex) Cream,<br>TopicalSuspension|0.005%-0.064%|Yes|No|
|--|Tazarotene (Tazorac) Cream, Gel|0.05%, 0.1%|Yes|No|
|--|Tapinarof(Vtama) Cream|1%|Yes|No|
||Systemic Agents||||
|**CPT Code**|**Drug**|**Available**<br>**Strengths**|**Pharmacy**<br>**Benefit**|**Medical**<br>**Benefit**|
||**Oral Retinoid**||||
|--|Acitretin(Soriatane)|10mg,25mg|Yes|No|
||**DMARDs**||||
|--|Cyclosporine,micronized|25mg,100mg|Yes|No|
|J9260|Methotrexate tablet, vial|2.5mg; 25mg/2ml|Yes, for<br>tablets|Yes, for vials<br>(QL)|
||**PDE-4 Inhibitor **||||
|--|Apremilast (Otezla)|30mg|Yes|No|
||**Biologics**||||
|J0135|Adalimumab (Humira, Humira CF)|20mg/0.4ml,<br>40mg/0.8ml,<br>40mg/0.4ml|Yes|No|
|--|Adalimumab-atto (Amjevita)|20mg/0.4ml,<br>40mg/0.8ml|Yes|No|
|J1438|Etanercept (Enbrel)|25mg/ml, 50mg/ml|Yes|No|
|Q5103|Infliximab-dyyb (Inflectra)|100mg IV vial|Yes|Yes (PA)|
|Q5104|Infliximab-abda (Renflexis)||||
|J1745|Infliximab (Remicade)||||
|Q5121|Infliximab-axxq (Avsola)||||
|--|Brodalumab (Siliq)|210mg/1.5ml|Yes|No|
|J1628|Guselkumab (Tremfya,Tremfya One-Press)|100mg/ml|Yes|No|
|--|Secukinumab (Cosentyx)|150mg/ml|Yes|No|
|--|Ixekizumab (Taltz)|80mg/ml|Yes|No|
|J3245|Tildrakizumab (Ilumya)|100mg/ml|Yes|Yes (PA)|
|J3357|Ustekinumab (Stelara)|45mg/0.5ml,<br>90mg/ml|Yes|No|



Coverage Policy – Dermatology – Psoriasis 

Page 2 

--- end of page.page_number=2 ---

|J0717|Certolizumab (Cimzia)|200mg/ml|Yes, for<br>prefilled<br>syringe|Yes, for<br>lyophilized<br>powder(PA)|
|---|---|---|---|---|
|J2327|Risankizumab (Skyrizi)|150mg/ml|Yes|No|
|--|Spesolimab (Spevigo)|450mg/7.5ml|Yes|Yes (PA)|
|**--**|Deucravacitinib (Sotyktu)|6mg|Yes|No|
|**--**|Bimekizumab (Bimzelx)|160mg/mL|Yes|No|



##  **EVALUATION CRITERIA FOR APPROVAL/EXCEPTION CONSIDERATION** 

Below are the coverage criteria and required information for agents with medical benefit restrictions.  This coverage criteria has been reviewed and approved by the HPSJ/MVHP Pharmacy & Therapeutics (P&T) Advisory Committee. For agents that do not have established prior authorization criteria, HPSJ/MVHP will make the determination based on Medical Necessity criteria as described in HPSJ/MVHP Medical Review Guidelines (UM06). 

## **DMARDs** 

## _**Methotrexate 25mg/ml Vial**_ 

- **Coverage Criteria:** Auth is not required office based. Auth is required facility based. 

- **Limits:** 4 units of J9260 METHOTREXATE SODIUM, 50 MG per 28 days 

- **Required Information for Approval:** N/A 

- **Other Notes:** N/A 

## **Biologics** 

## _**1[st] line—Infliximab–dyyb (Inflectra), Infliximab-abda (Renflexis), Infliximab (Remicade), Infliximabaxxq (Avsola)**_ 

- **Coverage Criteria:** Reserved for treatment failure to 12 weeks of dose-optimized, oral DMARD therapy (Methotrexate 15-25mg/week, Cyclosporine, and Acitretin). If patient is unable to tolerate one oral DMARD, a second oral DMARD must be tried. Must be prescribed by a dermatologist. 

- **Limits:** None 

- **Required Information for Approval:** Clinic notes or prescription history indicating patient has tried at least 12 weeks of dose-optimized oral DMARD (Methotrexate, Cyclosporine, Acitretin, etc). 

- **Other Notes:** None 

## _**2[nd] line—Tildrakizumab (Ilumya)**_ 

- **Coverage Criteria:** Reserved for treatment failure/documented intolerance to Adalimumab, Etanercept, or Infliximab. Must be prescribed by dermatologist. 

- **Limits:** None 

- **Required Information for Approval:** Prescription history of Adalimumab, Etanercept, or Infliximab. 

   - **Other Notes:** N/A 

## _**3[rd] line—Certolizumab (Cimzia):**_ 

- **Coverage Criteria:** Reserved for [1] treatment failure/documented intolerance to A) Adalimumab, Etanercept, or Infliximab and B) Secukinumab, Guselkumab, Brodalumab, Tildrakizumab, or Ixekizumab OR [2] women that are currently pregnant or breastfeeding. Must be prescribed by a dermatologist. 

- **Limits:** None 

Coverage Policy – Dermatology – Psoriasis 

Page 3 

--- end of page.page_number=3 ---

- **Required Information for Approval:** Prescription history of Adalimumab, Etanercept, or Infliximab and Secukinumab, Guselkumab, Brodalumab, Tildrakizumab, or Ixekizumab OR pregnancy/breastfeeding status. 

- **Other Notes:** N/A 

## _**Spesolimab-sbzo (Spevigo):**_ 

- **Coverage Criteria:** Spevigo is reserved for the following criteria: [1] Treatment of moderate to severe acute flare of generalized pustular psoriasis (defined as a GPPGA total score of ≥3, new or worsening pustules, a GPPGA pustulation subscore of ≥2, and ≥5% of body-surface area with erythema and the presence of pustules) AND [2] The diagnosis of generalized pustular psoriasis must be confirmed by the presence of primary, sterile, macroscopically visible pustules on non-acral skin and pustulation must not be restricted to psoriatic plaques (i.e. occurs outside of psoriatic plaques). Must be prescribed by a dermatologist. 

- **Limits:** Two 900mg doses per month if needed for acute flare. 

- **Required Information for Approval:** N/A 

- **Other Notes:** Other systemic and topical treatments for generalized pustular psoriasis should be discontinued prior to and during Spevigo use. 

##  **CLINICAL JUSTIFICATION** 

The treatment goal for patients with PsO is to minimize disease activity by regularly monitoring regimen. The _2008 American Academy of Dermatology PsO_[3-6 ] _Guidelines_ and 2010 _Scottish Intercollegiate Guideline Network[7 ]_ recommends the following: 

## **Limited Disease** 

- Topical corticosteroids are the mainstay of therapy. 

- For patients requiring long-term TCS therapy, may want to consider “Pulse therapy” or adding on corticosteroidsparing agents (tacrolimus, pimecrolimus, calcipotriene, tazarotene). 

- Tacrolimus and pimecrolimus are not as effective as other topical therapies unless used on intertriginous areas or areas where skin is occluded. 

## **Extensive Disease** 

- Oral DMARDs and phototherapy are first-line treatment therapies. 

- TNF inhibitor biologics should be considered in patients who have failed 1 or more dose-optimized DMARD therapy for 3-6 months. 

- Consider combination therapy (topical + phototherapy OR topical/phototherapy + DMARD/TNF) for improved effectiveness. 

Coverage Policy – Dermatology – Psoriasis 

Page 4 

--- end of page.page_number=4 ---

F _igure 1. 2010 Scottish Intercollegiate Guideline Network Care Pathway_ 

**==> picture [416 x 309] intentionally omitted <==**

The extent and staging of psoriasis drives the type of treatment. According to the 2008 American Academy of Dermatology guidelines, treatment with topical treatments are appropriate for patients with mild or localized psoriasis.[3] Patients with more extensive disease may require phototherapy and/or systemic agents. The National Psoriasis Foundation supports phototherapy as first-line therapy for treatment of psoriatic lesions.[8] Methotrexate, cyclosporine, and acitretin are all effective, first-line systemic agents for treatment of extensive psoriasis or psoriasis with inadequate response to topical therapies. It is important to note that not all patients with limited skin disease should be treated with systemic therapy even if treatment with topical therapy is inadequate; the risk-to-benefit ratio should be evaluated. In most cases, the patient may likely benefit first with a trial of phototherapy in combination with topical corticosteroids. Patients with severe, refractory psoriasis (treatment failure to 1 or more DMARD) may be a candidate for biologic therapy. The efficacy between biologics do not differ significantly but the cost may vary due to differences in administration frequency (twice monthly vs. weekly vs. monthly, and so forth). Therefore, HPSJ/MVHP’s order of preference of the biologic therapies are based on the cost-benefit ratio where the first-line biologics are agents associated with the lowest cost-benefit ratio. 

Coverage Policy – Dermatology – Psoriasis 

Page 5 

--- end of page.page_number=5 ---

## _**Role of oral agents (DMARDs and immunosuppressants)**_ 

Oral DMARDs are commonly used as first-line therapies in many mild-moderate inflammatory disorders with a few exceptions (e.g. Ankylosing Spondylitis). For most patients, treatment with oral agents may be sufficient for their condition. Generally, 12 weeks of continuous DMARD therapy is considered to be an adequate trial— assuming the drug is adequately dosed. In patients with liver and/or renal impairment, DMARDs are not necessarily excluded right away. In most cases, DMARDs can be safely used as long as there is regular monitoring of labs and side effects and the dosing is adjusted accordingly. 

**Table 2: Commonly used oral agents in chronic inflammatory diseases** 

|**Oral Agent**|**Joint**|**Skin**|**GI**|**liver damage**|**kidney damage**|**Pregnancy**|**Breastfeeding**|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|**Acitretin**||X||avoid use|avoid use|Contraindicated|Contraindicated; wait<br>atleast 3 years aftertx|
|**Azathioprine**|X|X*|X|monitor|monitor & dose<br>adjust|Avoid use|Not recommended|
|**Cyclosporine**|X*|X|X*|monitor|monitor & dose<br>adjust|Avoid use|Not recommended|
|**Leflunomide**|X|X|X*|avoid use|avoid use|Contraindicated|Unknown|
|**Mercaptopurine**|X*|X*|X|monitor|monitor & dose<br>adjust|Avoid use|Unknown|
|**Methotrexate**|X|X|X|avoid use|monitor & dose<br>adjust|Contraindicated|Contraindicated|
|**Mycophenolate**||X*|X*|monitor|monitor & dose<br>adjust|Avoid use|Avoid during and 6<br>wks aftertx|
|**Sulfasalazine**|X|X*|X|monitor|monitor|Generallysafe|Generallysafe|
|_*limited evidence_||||||||



## _Special Populations_ 

## **Pregnancy** 

Guidelines for pregnancy, as stated by the Canadian guidelines and the American National Psoriasis Foundation, indicate that 1[st] line therapy includes low- to moderate potency corticosteroids, 2[nd] line therapy includes narrow ban UVB, and 3[rd] line therapy, only to be used if benefits outweigh risks, includes cyclosporine or TNF inhibitors.[27-28] Other DMARDS deemed safe include sulfasalazine and azathioprine, and possibly leflunomide.[29] Azathioprine has a risk for premature births and, although limited animal data contraindicates its use. Leflunomide has an apparently low human teratogenicity risk. Cyclosporine and sulfasalazine seem to be the safest or most preferred DMARD agents.[29 ] 

## **Elevated LFTs** 

Specific guidelines for patients who have elevated LFTs are not available, but the American Academy of Dermatology guidelines do have suggestions for LFT monitoring and some recommendations on protocol if LFTs are elevated to a certain level.  For methotrexate, if elevation exceeds 2x normal levels, LFT monitoring must be checked more frequently; if elevation exceeds 3x normal levels, consider dose reduction (administer 75% of dose); if elevation exceeds 5x normal, discontinuation of the medication is recommended. No other drugs have specific guidelines for LFT levels.[30] The 2008 ACR guidelines state that leflunomide, methotrexate, and sulfasalazine should not be started nor resumed if liver transaminases were >2x the upper normal limit. Despite this, there are no recommendations on discontinuation.[31] A paper regarding expert opinion on the treatment of psoriasis in special circumstances speaks to the use of biologics in the setting of fatty liver 

Coverage Policy – Dermatology – Psoriasis 

Page 6 

--- end of page.page_number=6 ---

disease. The panel considered etanercept and ustekizumab to be the best options for use in a patient with fatty liver disease.[32] 

## _Additional Information_ 

NICE guidelines state a 3-month trial for methotrexate and cyclosporine, and 4 months for acitretin should be done before assessing treatment response.[33] 

A review article regarding calcineurin inhibitors states that tacrolimus and pimecrolimus have demonstrated efficacy for use on thin or sensitive skin areas, such as the face or genitals, although no studies regarding the comparative efficacy of the two agents exist. One study suggests that these agents are not as potent efficacy wise compared to corticosteroids (study was comparing pimecrolimus to topical steroids).[36 ] Regarding the safety tolerability of these calcineurin inhibitors, two studies found no difference between pimecrolimus or tacrolimus when compared to placebo in the setting of facial or intertriginous psoriasis.[37-38] There is no information on utilizing both calcineurin inhibitors in combination. Furthermore, high-potency steroids should be avoided when used on thin or sensitive skin areas, including the face and genitals, but calcineurin inhibitors can be used in cases involving the face or other sensitive skin areas. If necessary, the 2009 Canadian guidelines do suggest that a short course of moderate potency topical steroid can be used in combination with calcineurin inhibitors as well.[39] In addition the NICE 2012 and NHS 2016 guidelines for psoriasis also recommend a short course of mild to moderate potency corticosteroid for facial psoriasis in children and adolescents.[33,40] 

The American Academy of Dermatology guidelines mention that it is rational to use different vehicles of the same agent at different times of the day (morning vs evening) and also mention that different vehicles have different indications for certain areas of the body.[41] Nothing specific was mentioned on using the same agent with different vehicles at the exact same time or application, but with the previous statements, it is rational to use multiple vehicles at the same time. Also, caution not to use over the recommended maximum daily or weekly amount if using a high-potency steroid such as clobetasol. 

High-potency steroids such as clobetasol have an upper bound of 50g/week over 2-4 weeks as stated by the American Academy of Dermatology guidelines.[41] Of note, there is some evidence that HPA axis suppression can occur in doses as low as 2g/day for 2 or more weeks.[44] For this reason, proper selection of patients and conservative use is important when prescribing high-potency steroids. Table 3 provides guidance for standard amounts of topical needed, in grams and based on BSA, in adults and children. Some factors that predispose HPA axis include chronic use, use on sensitive or permeable skin, application to a large area of skin, occlusion, poor skin integrity, young age and liver failure. The American Academy of Dermatology does state that in practice longer durations of use over 4 weeks is possible, but proper supervision is needed to avoid side effects. The guidelines further state that consideration should be put into reducing dose once clinical improvement occurs, intermittent use, or combination therapy with non-steroidal agents. 

_Table 3. Fingertip Unit Guide for Adults and Children[41, 45 ]_ 

## **Adults** 

|**Area to Be Treated**|**No. of FTU (Fingertip Units)**|**Approx. Dose**<br>**(Gm)***|**Approx. BSA**<br>**(%)**|
|---|---|---|---|
|**Scalp**|3|1.5|6|
|**Face and neck **|2.5|1.25|5|
|**One hand (front and back) and fingers**|1|0.5|2|
|**One entire arm including entire hand**|4|2|8|
|**Elbows**|1|0.5|2|
|**Both soles**|1.5|0.75|3|
|**One foot (dorsal and sole) including toes**|1.5|0.75|3|



Coverage Policy – Dermatology – Psoriasis 

Page 7 

--- end of page.page_number=7 ---

|**One entire leg including entire foot**|8|4|16|
|---|---|---|---|
|**Buttocks**|4|2|8|
|**Knees**|1|0.5|2|
|**Trunk(anterior)**|8|4|16|
|**Trunk(posterior)**|8|4|16|
|**Genitalia**|0.5|0.25|1|



*1 FTU = 500mg 

## **Children^** 

|**Age**|**Face & Neck **|**Arm& Hand**|**Leg & Foot**|**Trunk(Anterior)**|**Trunk(Posterior) and Buttocks**|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|**3-6 Months**|1|1|1.5|1|1.5|
|**1-2 Years**|1.5|1.5|2|2|3|
|**3-5 Years**|1.5|2|3|3|3.5|
|**6-10 Years**|2|2.5|4.5|3.5|5|



**^** All values are FTU 

The application of steroids to open wounds should theoretically increase the risk of HPA axis suppression and other systemic side effects. Nonetheless, there is data that suggests applying corticosteroids to chronic wounds does help improve the healing process. In these cases, usually only low-dose topical steroids are used.[42-43] 

##  **REFERENCES** 

1. Feldman SR, Burudpakdee C, Gala S, Nanavaty M, Mallya UG. The economic burden of psoriasis: a systemic literature review. Expert Rev Pharmacoecon Outcomes Res. 2014. 14(5): 685-705. 

2. Brezinski, E, Dhillon J, Armstrong A. Economic Burden of psoriasis in the United States: a systematic review. JAMA Dermatol. 2015. Doi:10.1001/jamadermatol.2014.3593. 

3. Menter A, Korman N, Elmets C, et al. Guidelines of care for the management of psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis: Section 3—Guidelines of care for the management and treatment of psoriasis with topical therapies. J Am AcadDermatol. 2009; 60:643-59. 

4. Menter A, Korman N, Elmets C, et al. Menter A, Gottlieb A, Feldman S, et al. Guidelines of care for the management of psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis: Section 5—Guidelines of care for the treatment of psoriasis with phototherapy and photochemotherapy. J Am AcadDermatol. 2010; 62: 114-135. 

5. Menter A, Gottlieb A, Feldman S, et al. Guidelines of care for the management of psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis: Section 1—Overview of psoriasis and guidelines of care for the treatment of psoriasis with biologics. J Am AcadDermatol. 2008; 58: 826-50. 

6. Menter A, Korman N, Elmets C, et al. Guidelines of care for the management of psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis: Section 4—Guidelines of care for the management and treatment of psoriasis with traditional systemic agents. J Am AcadDermatol. 2009; 61: 451-85. 

7. Scottish Intercollegiate Guidelines Network (SIGN). Diagnosis and management of psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis in adults. Edinburgh: SIGN; 2010. (SIGN publication no. 121). 

8. National Psoriasis Foundation. Policy Brief: phototherapy copayments impact access to treatment. 

9. Ramiro S, Smolen SJ, Landewe Ro, et al. Pharmacological treatment of psoriatic arthritis: a systematic literature review for the 2015 update of the EULAR recommendations for the management of psoriatic arthritis. Ann Rheum Dis. December 2015. Doi:10.1136/annrheumdis-2015-208466. 

10. Garnock-Jones KP. Secukinumab: A Review in Moderate to Severe Plaque Psoriasis. Am J Clin Dermatol. 2015 July; 16:323-330 

11. Malakouti M, et al. Treatment challenges in the management of moderate-to-severe plaque psoriasis – role of secukinumab. Clinical, Cosmetic and Investigational Dermatology. 2016 Oct; 9:347-355. 

Coverage Policy – Dermatology – Psoriasis 

Page 8 

--- end of page.page_number=8 ---

12. Paul C, et al. Efficacy, safety, and usability of secukinumab administration by autoinjector/pen in psoriasis: a randomized, controlled trial (JUNCTURE). JEADV. 2015;29:1082-1090 

13. Blauvelt A, et al. Secukinumab administration by pre-filled syringe: efficacy, safety and usability from a randomized controlled trial in psoriasis. British Journal of Dermatology. 2015;172:484-493. 

14. Langley RG, Elewski BE, Lebwohl M, et al. Secukinumab in plaque psoriasis — results of two phase three trials. N Engl J Med 2014;371:326-38. 

15. Gordon KB, et al. Phase 3 Trials of Ixekizumab in Moderate-to-Severe Plaque Psoriasis. N Engl J Med. 2016 June; 375:345-56. 

16. Farahnik B, et al. Ixekizumab for the Treatment of Psoriasis: A Review of Phase III Trials. Dermatol Ther. 2016 Feb; 6:25-37. 

17. Yoo DH, Racewicz A, Brzezicki J, et al. A phase III randomized study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of CT-P13 compared with reference infliximab in patients with active rheumatoid arthritis: 54-week results from the PLANETRA study. Arthritis Res Ther 2016;18:82. 

18. ClinicalTrials.Gov. Efficacy and Safety Study of ABP 501 Compared to Adalimumab in Subjects With Moderate to Severe Rheumatoid Arthritis. October 23, 2016. https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT01970475. Accessed January 22, 2017. 

19. Griffiths CE, et al. The EGALITY study: A confirmatory, 9isankizum, doubleblind study comparing the efficacy, safety and immunogenicity of GP2015, a proposed etanercept biosimilar, versus the originator product in patients with moderate to severe chronic plaque-type psoriasis. Br J Dermatol. 2016 Oct 27. Doi: 10.1111/bjd.15152. 

20. Dapavo P, et al. The infliximab biosimilar in the treatment of moderate to severe plaque psoriasis. Journal of American Academy of Dermatology. 2016 Oct;75(4):736-9. 

21. FIMEA. Interchangeability of Biosimilars—Position of Finnish Medicines Agency Fimea. May 22, 2015. http://www.fimea.fi/instancedata/prime_product_julkaisu/fimea/embeds/fimeawwwstructure/29197_ Biosimilaarien_vaihtokelpoisuus_EN.pdf. Accessed January 22, 2017. 

22. FDA. Summary Minutes of the Arthritis Advisory Committee Meeting. July 12, 2016. http://www.fda.gov/downloads/AdvisoryCommittees/CommitteesMeetingMaterials/Drugs/ArthritisAd visoryCommittee/UCM520027.pdf. Accessed January 21, 2017. 

23. Dörner T, Strand V, Cornes P, et al. The changing landscape of biosimilars in rheumatology. Ann Rheum Dis 2016; 75:974–82. Doi:10.1136/annrheumdis-2016-209166 

24. FDA. Biosimilars: Questions and Answers Regarding implementation of Biologics Price Competition and Innovation Act of 2009. April 2015. http://www.fda.gov/downloads/Drugs/GuidanceComplianceRegulatoryInformation/Guidances/UCM44 4661.pdf. Accessed January 21, 2017 

25. Dapavo P, et al. The infliximab biosimilar in the treatment of moderate to severe plaque psoriasis. Journal of American Academy of Dermatology. 2016 Oct;75(4):736-9 

26. Results from the NOR-SWITCH study support switch from Remicade to Remsima (biosimilar infliximab). Mundipharma. 19 October 2016. http://www.mundipharma.com/docs/default-source/defaultdocument-library/161019-ueg-press-release-final.pdf?sfvrsn=0. Accessed 2 Feb 2017. 

27. Canadian Psoriasis Guidelines Addendum Committee. 2016 Addendum to the Canadian Guidelines for the Management of Plaque Psoriasis 2009. J Cutan Med Surg. 2016 Sep;20(5):375-431. 

28. Bangsgaard N, et al. Treating Psoriasis During Pregnancy: Safety and Efficacy of Treatments. Am J Clin Dermatol. 2015. 16:389-398. 

29. Kurizky PS, et al. Treatment of psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis during pregnancy and breastfeeding. An Bras Dermatol. 2015;90(3):367-75. 

30. Menter A, et al. Guidelines of care for the management of psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis. Section 4. Guidelines of care for the management and treatment of psoriasis with traditional systemic agents. 2009 Sep; 61(3): 451-485. 

Coverage Policy – Dermatology – Psoriasis 

Page 9 

--- end of page.page_number=9 ---

31. Saag KG, et al. American College of Rheumatology 2008 Recommendations for the Use of Nonbiologic and Biologic Disease-Modifying Antirheumatic Drugs in Rheumatoid Arthritis. 2008 Jun 15; 59(6):762-784. 

32. Carrascosa JM, et al. Expert Recommendations on Treating Psoriasis in Special Circumstances. 2015 April. 106(4):292-309. 

33. National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (2012) Psoraisis: assessment and management. Clinical Guideline (CG153). 

34. Cather J, Crowley J. Use of Biologic Agents in Combination with Other Therapies for the Treatment of Psoriasis. Am J Clin Dermatol. 2014. 15:467-478. 

35. Armstrong A, et al. Combining Biologic Therapies With Other Systemic Treatment in Psoriasis. JAMA Dermatol. 2015. 151(4): 432-438. 

36. Wang C, Lin A. Efficacy of Topical Calcineurin Inhibitors in Psoriasis. Journal of Cutaneous Medicine and Surgery. 2014. 18(1): 8-14. 

37. Lebwohl M, et al. Tacrolimus ointment is effective for facial and intertriginous psoriasis. J Am Acad Dermatol. 2004;51(5):723. 

38. Gribetz C, et al. Pimecrolimus cream 1% in the treatment of intertriginous psoriasis: a double-blind, randomized study. J Am Acad Dermatol. 2004;51(5):731. 

39. Papp K, et al. Canadian Guidelines for the management of plaque psoriasis: overview. J Cutan Med Surg. 2011 Jul-Aug;15(4):210-9. 

40. Guidelines for the management of patients with Psoriasis (Updated Jan 2016). NHS Southwark Clinical Commission Group and NHS Lambeth Clinical Commission Group. Jan 2016. http://www.lambethccg.nhs.uk/news-and-publications/meeting-papers/lambeth-borough-prescribingcommittee/Lambeth%20Borough%20Prescribing%20Committee/Clinical%20Guidelines/Management %20of%20patients%20with%20psoriasis%20Jan%202016.pdf. Accessed 2 Feb 2017. 

41. Menter A, et al. Guidelines for the management of psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis. Section 3. Guidelines of care for the management and treatment of psoriasis with topical therapies. J Am Acad Dermatol. 2009 Apr;60(4):643-59. 

42. Bosanquet DC, et al. Topical steroids for chronic wounds displaying abnormal inflammation. Annal R Coll Surg Engl 2013. 95: 291-296. 

43. Hofman D, et al. Use of topical corticosteroids on chronic leg ulcers.  J Wound Care. 2007 May;16(5):22730. 

44. Walsh P, et al. Hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal axis suppression by superpotent topical steroids. J Am Acad Dermatol. 1993;29(3):501. 

45. Long CC, et al. A practical guide to topical therapy in children. British Journal of Dermatology. 1998; 138:293-296. 

46. Reich K, Burden AD, Eaton JN, Hawkins NS. Efficacy of Biologics in the Treatment of Moderate to Severe Psoriasis. The British Journal of Dermatol. 2012;166(1):179–188. 

47. Nast A, Jacobs A, Rosumeck S, Werner RN. Efficacy and Safety of Systemic Long-Term Treatments for Moderate-to-Severe Psoriasis: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis. J Invest Dermatol. 2015 Nov;135(11):2641-8. Doi: 10.1038/jid.2015.206. Epub 2015 Jun 5. 

48. Smith CH, Jabbar-Lopez ZK, 10is ZZ, et al. British Association of Dermatologists guidelines for biologic therapy for psoriasis 2020: a rapid update. Br J Dermatol 2020; 10:1111. 

49. Sbidian E, Le Cleach L, Trinquart L, et al. Systemic pharmacological treatments for chronic plaque psoriasis. Cochrane Skin Group, ed. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews. Published online July 12, 2023. Doi: 10.1002/14651858.CD011535.pub6. 

50. Kay et al. Consensus-based recommendations for the use of biosimilars to treat rheumatological diseases. Ann Rheum Dis 2018;77:165–174. 

51. Tanaka Y, Yamanaka H, Takeuchi T, Inoue M, Saito K, Saeki Y, et al. Safety and efficacy of CT-P13 in Japanese patients with rheumatoid arthritis in an extension phase or after switching from infliximab. Modern Rheumatol 2017;27:237–45. 

Coverage Policy – Dermatology – Psoriasis 

Page 10 

--- end of page.page_number=10 ---

52. Park W, Yoo DH, Miranda P, Brzosko M, Wiland P, Gutierrez-Urena S, et al. Efficacy and safety of switching from reference infliximab to CT-P13 compared with maintenance of CT-P13 in ankylosing spondylitis: 102-week data from the PLANETAS extension study. Ann Rheum Dis 2017;76:346–54. 

53. Jorgensen KK, Olsen IC, Goll GL, Lorentzen M, Bolstad N, Haavardsholm EA, et al. Switching from originator infliximab tobiosimilar CT-P13 compared with maintained treatment with originator infliximab (NOR-SWITCH): a 52-week, 11isankizum, double-blind, non-inferiority trial. Lancet 2017;389:2304–16. 

54. Yoo DH, Prodanovic N, Jaworski J, Miranda P, Ramiterre E, Lanzon A, et al. Efficacy and safety of CT-P13 (biosimilar infliximab) in patients with rheumatoid arthritis: comparison between switching from reference infliximab to CT-P13 and continuing CT-P13 in the PLANETRA extension study. Ann Rheum Dis 2017;76:355–63. 

55. Bridges, S. L., White, D. W., Worthing, A. B., Gravallese, E. M., O’Dell, J. R., Nola, K., Kay, J., Cohen, S. B. and on behalf of the American College of Rheumatology (2018), The Science Behind Biosimilars. Arthritis Rheumatol. Doi:10.1002/art.40388 

56. Johnson&Johnson.  Janssen Announces U.S. FDA Approval of Novel TREMFYA® (guselkumab) One-Press Patient-controlled Injector for Adults with Moderate-to-Severe Plaque Psoriasis. https://www.jnj.com/janssen-announces-u-s-fda-approval-of-novel-tremfya-guselkumab-one-presspatient-controlled-injector-for-adults-with-moderate-to-severe-plaque-psoriasis. Accessed May 13, 2019. 

57. Efficacy and Safety Study of Guselkumab in the Treatment of Participants With Moderate to Severe Plaque-Type Psoriasis – Study Results. Study Results – ClinicalTrials.gov. https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/results/NCT02905331?view=results. 

58. lauvelt A, Papp KA, Griffiths CE, et al. Efficacy and safety of guselkumab, an anti-interleukin-23 monoclonal antibody, compared with adalimumab for the continuous treatment of patients with moderate to severe psoriasis: results from the phase III, double-blinded, placebo- and active comparatorcontrolled VOYAGE 1 trial. J Am Acad Dermatol. 2017;76(3):405–417. 

59. Reich K, Armstrong AW, Foley P, et al. Efficacy and safety of guselkumab, an anti-interleukin-23 monoclonal antibody, compared with adalimumab for the treatment of patients with moderate to severe psoriasis with randomized withdrawal and retreatment: Results from the phase III, double-blind, placebo- and active comparator-controlled VOYAGE 2 trial. J Am Acad Dermatol. 2017;76(3):418–431. 

60. Humira.com. (2019). _HUMIRA® (adalimumab) Citrate-free Injection_ . [online] Available at: https://www.humira.com/citrate-free. 

61. Nash P, Vanhoof J, Hall S, et al. Randomized Crossover Comparison of Injection Site Pain with 40 mg/0.4 or 0.8 mL Formulations of Adalimumab in Patients with Rheumatoid Arthritis. _Rheumatol Ther_ . 2016;3(2):257–270. Doi:10.1007/s40744-016-0041-3 

62. ILUMYA (tildrakizumab) [package insert]. Whitehouse Station, NJ; Merck; March 2018. 

63. Reich K, Papp KA, Blauvelt A, et al. Tildrakizumab versus placebo or etaercept for chronic plaque psoriasis (11isankizu 1 and 11isankizu 2): results from two 11isankizum controlled, phase 3 trials. Lancet. 2017;390(10091):276–288. 

64. Menter A, Strober BE, Kaplan DH, et al. Joint AAD-NPF guidelines of care for the management and treatment of psoriasis with biologics. _JAAD._ 2019;80(4):1029-1072. https://www.jaad.org/article/S0190-9622(18)33001-9/fulltext. Published February 13, 2019. 

65. Practice Management Center. Psoriasis guideline | American Academy of Dermatology. https://www.aad.org/practicecenter/quality/clinical-guidelines/psoriasis. 

66. Menter A, Gelfand J, Connor C, et al. Joint AAD-NPF Guidelines of Care for the Management of Psoriasis with Systemic Non-Biological Therapies. _JAAD_ . 2020. Doi: https://doi.org/10.1016/ j.jaad.2020.02.044. 

67. Lexi-Drugs. Lexicomp. Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. Riverwoods, IL. Available at: http://online.lexi.com. Accessed September 12, 2019. 

Coverage Policy – Dermatology – Psoriasis 

Page 11 

--- end of page.page_number=11 ---

68. Blauvelt A, Leonardi CL, Gooderham M, et al. Efficacy and Safety of Continuous Risankizumab Therapy vs Treatment Withdrawal in Patients With Moderate to Severe Plaque Psoriasis: A Phase 3 Randomized Clinical Trial. JAMA Dermatol. Published online April 08, 2020. Doi:10.1001/jamadermatol.2020.0723 

69. Reich K, Gooderham M, Thaci D, et al. Risankizumab compared with adalimumab in patients with moderate-to-severe plaque psoriasis (IMMvent): a 12isankizum, double-blind, active-comparatorcontrolled phase 3 trial. Lancet. Published online July 04, 2019. Doi:10.1016/S0140-6736(19)30952-3 

70. Götestam Skorpen C, Hoeltzenbein M, Tincani A, et al. The EULAR points to consider for use of antirheumatic drugs before pregnancy, and during pregnancy and lactation. Ann Rheum Dis. 2016;75(5):795-810. Doi:10.1136/annrheumdis-2015-208840. 

71. Sammaritano LR, Bermas BL, Chakravarty EE, et al. 2020 American College of Rheumatology Guideline for the Management of Reproductive Health in Rheumatic and Musculoskeletal Diseases. Arthritis Rheumatol. 2020;72(4):529-556. Doi:10.1002/art.41191. 

72. Porter ML, Lockwood SJ, Kimball AB. Update on biologic safety for patients with psoriasis during pregnancy. Int J Womens Dermatol. 2017;3(1):21-25. Published 2017 Feb 4. Doi:10.1016/j.ijwd.2016.12.003. 

73. Ferreira C, Azevedo A, Nogueira M, Torres T. Management of psoriasis in pregnancy – a review of the evidence to date. Drugs Context. 2020;9:2019-11-6. Published 2020 Mar 9. Doi:10.7573/dic.2019-11-6 

74. Romanowska-Próchnicka K, Felis-Giemza A, Olesińska M, Wojdasiewicz P, Paradowska-Gorycka A, Szukiewicz D. The Role of TNF-α and Anti-TNF-α Agents during Preconception, Pregnancy, and Breastfeeding. Int J Mol Sci. 2021;22(6):2922. Published 2021 Mar 13. Doi:10.3390/ijms22062922 

75. Krause ML, Amin S, Makol A. Use of DMARDs and biologics during pregnancy and lactation in rheumatoid arthritis: what the rheumatologist needs to know. Ther Adv Musculoskelet Dis. 2014;6(5):169-184. Doi:10.1177/1759720X14551568. 

76. ACOG Committee Opinion No. 776: Immune Modulating Therapies in Pregnancy and Lactation. Obstet Gynecol. 2019;133(4):e287-e295. Doi:10.1097/AOG.0000000000003176 

77. Humira (adalimumab) [package insert]. North Chicago, IL: Abbott Laboratories; 2021. 

78. Cimzia (certolizumab pegol) [package insert]. Smyrna, GA: UCB, Inc; 2019. 

79. Menter A, Gelfand JM, Connor C, et al. Joint American Academy of Dermatology-National Psoriasis Foundation guidelines of care for the management of psoriasis with systemic nonbiologic therapies. J Am Acad Dermatol. 2020;82(6):1445-1486. Doi:10.1016/j.jaad.2020.02.044. 

80. FDA approves 12isank for plaque psoriasis. FDA approves Cimzia for plaque psoriasis: National Psoriasis Foundation. https://www.psoriasis.org/advance/fda-approves-cimzia-for-plaque-psoriasis/. Accessed August 24, 2021. 

81. Skyrizi (12isankizumab) [package insert]. North Chicago, IL: AbbVie Inc.; 2019. 

82. Simponi (golimumab) [package insert]. Horsham, PA: Janssen Biotech, Inc.; 2019. 

83. Zema CL, Valdecantos WC, Weiss J, Krebs B, Menter AM. Understanding flares in patients with generalized pustular psoriasis documented in US electronic health records. _JAMA Dermatology_ . 2022;158(10):11421148. Doi:10.1001/jamadermatol.2022.3142 

84. Spevigo (spesolimab-sbzo) [package insert]. Ridgefield, CT: Boehringer Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals, Inc.; 2022. 

85. US Supreme Court denies Sandoz petition to review biosimilar Erelzi® (Etanercept-szzs) case. Novartis. Accessed February 17, 2023. https://www.novartis.com/news/media-releases/us-supreme-courtdenies-sandoz-petition-review-biosimilar-erelzi-etanercept-szzs-case 

86. 2021 biosimilar approval and litigation update. JD Supra. Accessed February 17, 2023. https://www.jdsupra.com/legalnews/2021-biosimilar-approval-and-litigation-1427785/ 

87. AmjevitaTM (Adalimumab-atto), first biosimilar to Humira®, now available in the United States. Amgen. - - 

Accessed February 17, 2023. https://www.amgen.com/newsroom/press releases/2023/01/amjevita adalimumabatto-first-biosimilar-to-humira-now-available-in-the-united-states 

Coverage Policy – Dermatology – Psoriasis 

Page 12 

--- end of page.page_number=12 ---

88. Zamecnik A. Humira biosimilars set the stage for long-awaited 2023 US launches. Pharmaceutical - 

Technology. Published December 5, 2022. Accessed February 17, 2023. https://www.pharmaceutical technology.com/features/humira-biosimilars-set-the-stage-for-long-awaited-2023-us-launches/ 

89. FDA accepts for review Pfizer’s supplemental application for AbriladaTM (Adalimumab-afzb) - 

interchangeability | Pfizer. Accessed February 17, 2023. https://www.pfizer.com/news/press release/press-release-detail/fda-accepts-review-pfizers-supplemental-application 

90. Sotyktu (deucravacitinib) [package insert]. Princeton, NJ: Bristol-Myers Squibb Company; 2022. 

91. Amjevita (adalimumab-atto) [package insert]. Thousand Oaks, CA: Amgen Inc.; 2016. 

92. Bimzelx (bimekizumab) [package insert]. Smyrna, GA: UCB, Inc.; 2023. 

## **REVIEW & EDIT HISTORY** 

|**Document Changes**|**Reference**|**Date**|**P&T Chairman **|
|---|---|---|---|
|Creationof Policy|Psoriasis–biologicals2-20-07.docx|02/2007|AllenShek,PharmD|
|UpdatedPolicy|Biological ResponseModifiersReview 2-19-08.docx|02/2008|AllenShek,PharmD|
|Updated Policy|HPA Suppression among Medium Potency Topical<br>Corticosteroids.docx|06/2008|Allen Shek, PharmD|
|UpdatedPolicy|BiologicResponseModifiers2010final.docx|05/2010|AllenShek,PharmD|
|UpdatedPolicy|Calcipotriene.docx|11/2012|AllenShek,PharmD|
|Updated Policy|Biologic Response Modifiers for Psoriasis 2013-2-<br>19.docx|02/2013|Allen Shek, PharmD|
|UpdatedPolicy|PsoriaticArthritis &Ankylosing Spondylitis.docx|10/2014|JonathanSzkotak,PharmD|
|Updated Policy|Class Review of Topical & Systemic Agents Used for<br>Skin Inflammation Disorders with an Emphasis on<br>Psoriasis.docx|05/2015|Jonathan Szkotak, PharmD|
|Updated Policy|HPSJ Coverage Policy -  Dermatology – Psoriasis<br>2015-05.docx|05/2015|Jonathan Szkotak, PharmD,<br>BCACP|
|Updated Policy|Coverage Policy Update – Dermatology – Psoriasis &<br>PsoriaticArthritis2015-11.docx|11/2015|Johnathan Yeh, PharmD|
|Updated Policy|Class Review- Biologics, Apremilast, and Tofacitinib<br>in Inflammatory Joint, Skin, andBowel Diseases.docx|02/2016|Johnathan Yeh, PharmD|
|Updated Policy|HPSJ Coverage Policy -  Dermatology – Psoriasis<br>2017-02.docx|02/2017|Johnathan Yeh, PharmD|
|Updated Policy|HPSJ Coverage Policy -  Dermatology – Psoriasis<br>2018-02.docx|02/2018|Johnathan Yeh, PharmD|
|Updated Policy|HPSJ Coverage Policy -  Dermatology – Psoriasis<br>2019-05.docx|05/2019|Matthew Garrett, PharmD|
|UpdatedPolicy|Psoriasis.docx|05/2020|MatthewGarrett,PharmD|
|UpdatedPolicy|Psoriasis.docx|09/2020|MatthewGarrett,PharmD|
|UpdatedPolicy|Psoriasis.docx|09/2021|MatthewGarrett,PharmD|
|UpdatedPolicy|Psoriasis.docx|11/2022|MatthewGarrett,PharmD|
|UpdatedPolicy|Psoriasis.docx|06/2023|MatthewGarrett,PharmD|
|UpdatedPolicy|Psoriasis.docx|06/2024|MatthewGarrett,PharmD|



_Note:  All changes are approved by the HPSJ/MVHP P&T Committee before incorporation into the utilization policy_ 

Coverage Policy – Dermatology – Psoriasis 

Page 13 

--- end of page.page_number=13 ---
