**==> picture [136 x 66] intentionally omitted <==**

## **PRIOR AUTHORIZATION POLICY** 

- **POLICY:** Inflammatory Conditions – Tremfya Subcutaneous Prior Authorization Policy 

   - Tremfya[®] (guselkumab subcutaneous injection – Janssen Biotech/Johnson & Johnson) 

- **REVIEW DATE:** 10/02/2024; selected revision 04/02/2025 

## **OVERVIEW** 

Tremfya, an interleukin (IL)-23 blocker, is indicated for the following uses:[1] 

- **Crohn’s disease** , in adults with moderate to severe active disease. 

- **Plaque psoriasis** , in adults with moderate to severe disease who are candidates for systemic therapy or phototherapy. 

- **Psoriatic arthritis** , in adults with active disease (given ± a conventional synthetic diseasemodifying antirheumatic drug). 

- **Ulcerative colitis** , in adults with moderate to severe active disease. 

## **Guidelines** 

IL blockers are mentioned in guidelines for treatment of inflammatory conditions. 

- **Crohn’s Disease:** Tremfya is not addressed in current guidelines.  The American College of Gastroenterology (ACG) has guidelines for Crohn’s disease (2018).[7] Biologics are a treatment option in patients who have moderate to severe disease despite treatment with another agent (e.g., corticosteroid, thiopurine, methotrexate, or tumor necrosis factor inhibitors).  Guidelines from the American Gastroenterological Association (AGA 2021) include biologics among the therapies for moderate to severe Crohn’s disease, for induction and maintenance of remission.[8] 

- **Plaque Psoriasis:** Joint guidelines from the American Academy of Dermatology and National Psoriasis Medical Board (2019) have been published for management of psoriasis with biologics.[2] These guidelines list Tremfya as a monotherapy treatment option for patients with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis.  It is recommended that a response to therapy be ascertained after 12 weeks of continuous therapy.  Guidelines from the European Dermatology Forum (2015) recommend biologics (i.e., etanercept, adalimumab, infliximab, Stelara[®] [ustekinumab subcutaneous injection]) as second-line therapy for induction and long-term treatment if phototherapy and conventional systemic agents have failed, are contraindicated, or are not tolerated.[3] 

- **Psoriatic Arthritis:** Guidelines from the American College of Rheumatology/National Psoriasis Foundation (2018) were published prior to approval of Tremfya for psoriatic arthritis.  However, these guidelines generally recommend tumor necrosis factor (TNF) inhibitors as the first-line treatment strategy over other biologics (e.g., IL-17 blockers, IL-12/23 inhibitor) with differing mechanisms of action.[4] 

- **Ulcerative colitis (UC):** Current guidelines do not address the use of Tremfya for UC.  The American Gastroenterological Association (2020) and the American College of Gastroenterology (2019) have clinical practice guidelines on the management of moderate to severe UC and make recommendations for the use of biologics for induction and maintenance of remission in adults.[5,6] Generally TNF inhibitors, Entyvio[®] (vedolizumab intravenous infusion/subcutaneous injection), Stelara[®] (ustekinumab intravenous infusion/subcutaneous injection), or Xeljanz[®] /Xeljanz[®] XR (tofacitinib tablets, tofacitinib extended-release tablets), are recommended for induction treatment of moderate to severe disease (strong recommendations, moderate quality of evidence).  The guidelines also recommend that any drug that effectively treats induction should be continued for maintenance. 

## **POLICY STATEMENT** 

--- end of page.page_number=1 ---

Inflammatory Conditions – Tremfya Subcutaneous PA Policy Page 2 

Prior Authorization is recommended for prescription benefit coverage of Tremfya.  All approvals are for the duration noted below.  In cases where the approval is authorized in months, 1 month is equal to 30 days. Because of the specialized skills required for evaluation and diagnosis of patients treated with Tremfya as well as the monitoring required for adverse events and long-term efficacy, initial approval requires Tremfya to be prescribed by or in consultation with a physician who specializes in the condition being treated. 

## **Automation:** None. 

## **RECOMMENDED AUTHORIZATION CRITERIA** 

Coverage of Tremfya is recommended in those who meet one of the following criteria: 

## **FDA-Approved Indications** 

**1. Crohn’s Disease.** Approve for the duration noted if the patient meets ONE of the following (A or B): **A)** Initial Therapy.  Approve for 6 months if the patient meets ALL of the following (i, ii, and iii): 

      - **i.** Patient is > 18 years of age; AND 

      - **ii.** Patient meets ONE of the following (a, b, c, or d): 

      - **a)** Patient has tried or is currently taking corticosteroids, or corticosteroids are contraindicated in this patient; OR 

         - Note:  Examples of corticosteroids are prednisone or methylprednisolone. 

      - **b)** Patient has tried one other conventional systemic therapy for Crohn’s disease; OR Note:  Examples of conventional systemic therapy for Crohn’s disease include azathioprine, 6-mercaptopurine, or methotrexate.  An exception to the requirement for a trial of or contraindication to steroids or a trial of one other conventional systemic agent can be made if the patient has already tried at least one biologic other than the requested medication.  A biosimilar of the requested biologic does not count. Refer to Appendix for examples of biologics used for Crohn’s disease.  A trial of mesalamine does not count as a systemic agent for Crohn’s disease. 

      - **c)** Patient has enterocutaneous (perianal or abdominal) or rectovaginal fistulas; OR 

      - **d)** Patient had ileocolonic resection (to reduce the chance of Crohn’s disease recurrence); AND 

      - **iii.** The medication is prescribed by or in consultation with a gastroenterologist; OR 

   - **B)** Patient is Currently Receiving Tremfya Subcutaneous.  Approve for 1 year if the patient meets BOTH of the following (i and ii): 

      - **i.** Patient has been established on therapy for at least 6 months; AND 

      - Note:  A patient who has received < 6 months of therapy or who is restarting therapy is reviewed under criterion A (Initial Therapy). 

      - **ii.** Patient meets at least ONE of the following (a or b): 

      - **a)** When assessed by at least one objective measure, patient experienced a beneficial clinical response from baseline (prior to initiating Tremfya); OR 

         - Note:  Examples of objective measures include fecal markers (e.g., fecal lactoferrin, fecal calprotectin), serum markers (e.g., C-reactive protein), imaging studies (magnetic resonance enterography, computed tomography enterography), endoscopic assessment, and/or reduced dose of corticosteroids. 

      - **b)** Compared with baseline (prior to initiating Tremfya), patient experienced an improvement in at least one symptom, such as decreased pain, fatigue, stool frequency, and/or blood in stool. 

**2. Plaque Psoriasis.** Approve for the duration noted if the patient meets ONE of the following (A or B): **A)** Initial Therapy.  Approve for 3 months if the patient meets ALL of the following (i, ii, and iii): 

--- end of page.page_number=2 ---

Inflammatory Conditions – Tremfya Subcutaneous PA Policy Page 3 

      - **i.** Patient is ≥ 18 years of age; AND 

      - **ii.** Patient meets ONE of the following conditions (a or b): 

         - **a)** Patient has tried at least at least one traditional systemic agent for psoriasis for at least 3 months, unless intolerant; OR 

            - Note:  Examples include methotrexate, cyclosporine, or acitretin.  A 3-month trial of psoralen plus ultraviolet A light (PUVA) also counts.  An exception to the requirement for a trial of one traditional systemic agent for psoriasis can be made if the patient has already had a 3-month trial or previous intolerance to at least one biologic other than the requested drug.  A biosimilar of the requested biologic does not count.  Refer to Appendix for examples of biologics used for psoriasis.  A patient who has already tried a biologic for psoriasis is not required to “step back” and try a traditional systemic agent for psoriasis. 

      - **b)** Patient has a contraindication to methotrexate, as determined by the prescriber; AND 

      - **iii.** The medication is prescribed by or in consultation with a dermatologist; OR 

   - **B)** Patient is Currently Receiving Tremfya.  Approve for 1 year if the patient meets ALL of the following (i, ii, and iii): 

      - **i.** Patient has been established on the requested drug for at least 3 months; AND Note:  A patient who has received < 3 months of therapy or who is restarting therapy with the requested drug is reviewed under criterion A (Initial Therapy). 

      - **ii.** Patient experienced a beneficial clinical response, defined as improvement from baseline (prior to initiating the requested drug) in at least one of the following:  estimated body surface area, erythema, induration/thickness, and/or scale of areas affected by psoriasis; AND 

      - **iii.** Compared with baseline (prior to initiating the requested drug), patient experienced an improvement in at least one symptom, such as decreased pain, itching, and/or burning. 

**3. Psoriatic Arthritis.** Approve for the duration noted if the patient meets ONE of the following (A or 

B): 

- **A)** Initial Therapy.  Approve for 6 months if the patient meets BOTH of the following (i and ii): 

   - **i.** Patient is > 18 years of age; AND 

   - **ii.** The medication is prescribed by or in consultation with a rheumatologist or a dermatologist; OR 

- **B)** Patient is Currently Receiving Tremfya.  Approve for 1 year if the patient meets BOTH of the following (i and ii): 

   - **i.** Patient has been established on the requested drug for at least 6 months; AND Note:  A patient who has received < 6 months of therapy or who is restarting therapy with the requested drug is reviewed under criterion A (Initial Therapy). 

   - **ii.** Patient meets at least ONE of the following (a or b): 

      - **a)** When assessed by at least one objective measure, patient experienced a beneficial clinical response from baseline (prior to initiating the requested drug); OR Note:  Examples of objective measures of disease activity include Disease Activity Index for Psoriatic Arthritis (DAPSA), Composite Psoriatic Disease Activity Index (CPDAI), Psoriatic Arthritis Disease Activity Score (PsA DAS), Grace Index, Leeds Enthesitis Score (LEI), Spondyloarthritis Consortium of Canada (SPARCC) enthesitis score, Leeds Dactylitis Instrument Score, Minimal Disease Activity (MDA), Psoriatic Arthritis Impact of Disease (PsAID-12), and/or serum markers (e.g., C-reactive protein, erythrocyte sedimentation rate). 

      - **b)** Compared with baseline (prior to initiating the requested drug), patient experienced an improvement in at least one symptom, such as less joint pain, morning stiffness, or fatigue; improved function or activities of daily living; decreased soft tissue swelling in joints or tendon sheaths. 

--- end of page.page_number=3 ---

Inflammatory Conditions – Tremfya Subcutaneous PA Policy Page 4 

**4. Ulcerative Colitis.** Approve for the duration noted if the patient meets ONE of the following (A or B): **A)** Initial Therapy.  Approve for 6 months if the patient meets ALL of the following (i, ii, iii, and iv): **i.** Patient is ≥ 18 years of age; AND 

   - **ii.** According to the prescriber, the patient will receive three induction doses with Tremfya intravenous within 3 months of initiating therapy with Tremfya subcutaneous; AND 

   - **iii.** Patient meets ONE of the following (a or b): 

      - **a)** Patient has had a trial of one systemic agent for ulcerative colitis; OR 

         - Note:  Examples include 6-mercaptopurine, azathioprine, cyclosporine, tacrolimus, or a corticosteroid such as prednisone, methylprednisolone.  A trial of a mesalamine product does not count as a systemic therapy for ulcerative colitis. A trial of one biologic other than the requested drug also counts as a trial of one systemic agent for ulcerative colitis.  A biosimilar of the requested biologic does not count.  Refer to Appendix for examples of biologics used for ulcerative colitis. 

      - **b)** Patient meets BOTH of the following [(1) and (2)]: 

         - **(1)** Patient has pouchitis; AND 

         - **(2)** Patient has tried an antibiotic, probiotic, corticosteroid enema, or mesalamine enema; AND 

Note:  Examples of antibiotics include metronidazole and ciprofloxacin.  Examples of corticosteroid enemas include hydrocortisone enema. 

   - **iv.** The medication is prescribed by or in consultation with a gastroenterologist; OR 

- **B)** Patient is Currently Receiving Tremfya Subcutaneous.  Approve for 1 year if the patient meets BOTH of the following (i and ii): 

   - **i.** Patient has been established on the requested drug for at least 6 months; AND Note:  A patient who has received < 6 months of therapy or who is restarting therapy with the requested drug is reviewed under criterion A (Initial Therapy). 

   - **ii.** Patient meets at least ONE of the following (a or b): 

      - **a)** When assessed by at least one objective measure, patient experienced a beneficial clinical response from baseline (prior to initiating the requested drug); OR Note:  Examples of assessment for inflammatory response include fecal markers (e.g., fecal calprotectin), serum markers (e.g., C-reactive protein), endoscopic assessment, and/or reduced dose of corticosteroids. 

      - **b)** Compared with baseline (prior to initiating the requested drug), patient experienced an improvement in at least one symptom, such as decreased pain, fatigue, stool frequency, and/or decreased rectal bleeding. 

## **CONDITIONS NOT RECOMMENDED FOR APPROVAL** 

Coverage of Tremfya is not recommended in the following situations: 

**1. Concurrent Use with a Biologic or with a Targeted Synthetic Oral Small Molecule Drug.** This medication should not be administered in combination with another biologic or with a targeted synthetic oral small molecule drug used for an inflammatory condition (see Appendix for examples). Combination therapy is generally not recommended due to a potentially higher rate of adverse events and lack of controlled clinical data supporting additive efficacy. 

Note:  This does NOT exclude the use of conventional synthetic disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs (e.g., methotrexate, leflunomide, hydroxychloroquine, or sulfasalazine) in combination with this medication. 

**2.** Coverage is not recommended for circumstances not listed in the Recommended Authorization Criteria. Criteria will be updated as new published data are available. 

--- end of page.page_number=4 ---

Inflammatory Conditions – Tremfya Subcutaneous PA Policy Page 5 

## **REFERENCES** 

1. Tremfya[®] subcutaneous injection [prescribing information].  Horsham, PA:  Janssen Biotech/Johnson & Johnson March 2025. 

2. Menter A, Strober BE, Kaplan DH, et al.  Joint AAD-NPF guidelines of care for the management and treatment of psoriasis with biologics. _J Am Acad Dermatol_ .  2019;80(4):1029-1072. 

3. Nast A, Gisondi P, Ormerod AD, et al.  European S3-Guidelines on the systemic treatment of psoriasis vulgaris – Update 2015 – Short version – EDF in cooperation with EADV and IPC. _J Eur Acad Dermatol Venereol_ .  2015;29(12):2277-2294. 

4. Singh JA, Guyatt G, Ogdie A, et al.  2018 American College of Rheumatology/National Psoriasis Foundation guideline for the treatment of psoriatic arthritis. _Arthritis Rheumatol._ 2019;71(1):5-32. 

5. Rubin DT, Ananthakrishnan AN, Siegel CA, et al.  ACG clinical guideline:  ulcerative colitis in adults. _Am J Gastroenterol_ . 2019;114(3):384-413. 

6. Feuerstein JD, Isaacs KL, Schneider Y, et al.  AGA clinical practice guidelines on the management of moderate to severe ulcerative colitis. _Gastroenterology_ .  2020 Apr158(5):1450-1461. 

7. Lichtenstein GR, Loftus EV, Isaacs KL, et al.  ACG clinical guideline:  management of Crohn's disease in adults. _Am J Gastroenterol_ .  2018;113(4):481-517. 

8. Feuerstein JD, Ho EY, Shmidt E, et al.  AGA clinical practice guidelines on the medical management of moderate to severe luminal and perianal fistulizing Crohn's disease. _Gastroenterology_ .  2021;160(7):2496-2508. 

## **HISTORY** 

|**Type of Revision**|**Summary of Changes**|**Review Date**|
|---|---|---|
|Annual Revision|No criteria changes.|08/23/2022|
|Selected Revision|**Plaque Psoriasis:**For a patient currently taking Tremfya, the timeframe for established<br>on therapy was changed from 90 days to 3 months.|03/27/2024|
|Selected Revision|**Plaque Psoriasis:**In the Note, psoralen plus ultraviolet A light (PUVA) was removed<br>from the examples of traditional systemic therapies.  An additional Note was added that<br>a 3-month trial of PUVA counts as a traditional systemic therapy.<br>**Psoriatic Arthritis**:  For initial approvals, a requirement that the patient is ≥ 18 years of<br>age was added.<br>**Conditions Not Recommended for Approval:**Concurrent use with a Biologic or with<br>a Targeted Synthetic Oral Small Molecule Drug was changed to as listed (previously oral<br>small molecule drug was listed as Disease-Modifying Antirheumatic Drug).|09/11/2024|
|Annual Revision|Policy name was changed to as listed (previously was Inflammatory Conditions –<br>Tremfya).<br>**Ulcerative Colitis**:  This new condition of approval was added to the policy.|10/02/2024|
|SelectedRevision|**Crohn’s Disease:**Thisnew conditionofapprovalwas added to the policy.|04/02/2025|



--- end of page.page_number=5 ---

Inflammatory Conditions – Tremfya Subcutaneous PA Policy Page 6 

## **APPENDIX** 

||**Mechanism of Action **|**Examples of Indications***|
|---|---|---|
|**Biologics**|||
|**Adalimumab SC Products**(Humira®, biosimilars)|Inhibition of TNF|AS, CD, JIA, PsO, PsA, RA, UC|
|**Cimzia**®(certolizumab pegol SC injection)|Inhibition of TNF|AS, CD, nr-axSpA, PsO, PsA, RA|
|**Etanercept SC Products**(Enbrel®, biosimilars)|Inhibition of TNF|AS, JIA, PsO, PsA, RA|
|**Infliximab IV Products **(Remicade®, biosimilars)|Inhibitionof TNF|AS, CD,PsO,PsA,RA, UC|
|**Zymfentra®**(infliximab-dyyb SC injection)|Inhibition of TNF|CD, UC|
|**Simponi®, Simponi Aria®**(golimumab SC<br>injection, golimumab IV infusion)|Inhibition of TNF|SC formulation:  AS, PsA, RA, UC|
|||IV formulation:  AS, PJIA, PsA, RA|
|**Tocilizumab Products**(Actemra®IV, biosimilar;<br>Actemra SC,biosimilar)|Inhibition of IL-6|SC formulation:  PJIA, RA, SJIA|
|||IVformulation:PJIA,RA, SJIA|
|**Kevzara® **(sarilumab SC injection)|Inhibition of IL-6|RA|
|**Orencia®**(abatacept IV infusion, abatacept SC<br>injection)|T-cell costimulation<br>modulator|SCformulation: JIA,PSA,RA|
|||IV formulation:  JIA, PsA, RA|
|**Rituximab IV Products**(Rituxan®, biosimilars)|CD20-directed cytolytic<br>antibody|RA|
|**Kineret®**(anakinra SC injection)|Inhibition of IL-1|JIA^, RA|
|**Omvoh®**(mirikizumab IV infusion, SC injection)|Inhibition of IL-23|CD, UC|
|**Ustekinumab Products**(Stelara®IV, biosimilars,<br>Stelara SC,biosimilars)|Inhibition of IL-12/23|SC formulation:  CD, PsO, PsA, UC|
|||IV formulation:  CD, UC|
|**Siliq® **(brodalumab SCinjection)|Inhibitionof IL-17|PsO|
|**Cosentyx®**(secukinumab SC injection;<br>secukinumab IV infusion)|Inhibition of IL-17A|SC formulation:  AS, ERA, nr-<br>axSpA, PsO, PsA|
|||IVformulation:AS,nr-axSpA,PsA|
|**Taltz® **(ixekizumab SC injection)|Inhibition of IL-17A|AS, nr-axSpA, PsO, PsA|
|**Bimzelx® **(bimekizumab-bkzxSCinjection)|Inhibitionof IL-17A/17F|AS,nr-axSpA,PsO,PsA|
|**Ilumya® **(tildrakizumab-asmn SC injection)|Inhibition of IL-23|PsO|
|**Skyrizi®**(risankizumab-rzaa SC injection,<br>risankizumab-rzaa IV infusion)|Inhibition of IL-23|SC formulation:  CD, PSA, PsO, UC|
|||IV formulation:  CD, UC|
|**Tremfya® **(guselkumab SC injection, guselkumab<br>IV infusion)|Inhibition of IL-23|SC formulation:  CD, PsA, PsO, UC|
|||IVformulation: CD, UC|
|**Entyvio®**(vedolizumab IV infusion, vedolizumab<br>SC injection)|Integrin receptor antagonist|CD, UC|
|**Oral Therapies/Targeted Synthetic Oral Small Molecule Drugs**|||
|**Otezla® **(apremilast tablets)|Inhibition of PDE4|PsO, PsA|
|**Cibinqo™ **(abrocitinib tablets)|Inhibition of JAK pathways|AD|
|**Olumiant® **(baricitinib tablets)|Inhibition of JAK pathways|RA, AA|
|**Litfulo® **(ritlecitinib capsules)|Inhibition of JAK pathways|AA|
|**Leqselvi® **(deuruxolitinib tablets)|InhibitionofJAKpathways|AA|
|**Rinvoq® **(upadacitinib extended-release tablets)|Inhibition of JAK pathways|AD, AS, nr-axSpA, RA, PsA, UC|
|**Rinvoq® LQ**(upadacitinib oral solution)|Inhibition of JAK pathways|PsA, PJIA|
|**Sotyktu® **(deucravacitinib tablets)|Inhibition of TYK2|PsO|
|**Xeljanz® **(tofacitinib tablets/oral solution)|Inhibition of JAK pathways|RA, PJIA, PsA, UC|
|**Xeljanz® XR** (tofacitinib extended-release tablets)|InhibitionofJAKpathways|RA,PsA, UC|
|**Zeposia® **(ozanimod tablets)|Sphingosine 1 phosphate<br>receptor modulator|UC|
|**Velsipity® **(etrasimod tablets)|Sphingosine 1 phosphate<br>receptor modulator|UC|



* Not an all-inclusive list of indications.  Refer to the prescribing information for the respective agent for FDA-approved indications; SC – Subcutaneous; TNF – Tumor necrosis factor; AS – Ankylosing spondylitis; CD – Crohn’s disease; JIA – Juvenile idiopathic arthritis; PsO – Plaque psoriasis; PsA – Psoriatic arthritis; RA – Rheumatoid arthritis; UC – Ulcerative colitis; nr-axSpA – Nonradiographic axial spondyloarthritis; IV – Intravenous, PJIA – Polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis; IL – Interleukin; SJIA – Systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis;[^] Off-label use of Kineret in JIA supported in guidelines; ERA – Enthesitis-related arthritis; DMARD – Disease-modifying antirheumatic drug; PDE4 – Phosphodiesterase 4; JAK – Janus kinase; AD – Atopic dermatitis; AA – Alopecia areata; TYK2 – Tyrosine kinase 2. 

--- end of page.page_number=6 ---
