**==> picture [172 x 43] intentionally omitted <==**

## Drug Management Policy 

## Stelara 

**Policy Number:** 9.129 **Version Number:** R5 **Version Effective Date:** 3/1/2025 

## **Impacted Products** 

- `☐` **All Products** 

- `☒` NH Medicaid 

- `☐` NH Medicare Advantage 

- `☐` MA MassHealth ACO 

- `☐` MA MassHealth MCO 

- `☐` MA Clarity plans/Employer Choice Direct 

- `☐` MA Senior Care Options 

## **Benefit** 

- `☒` Pharmacy benefit 

- `☒` Medical benefit 

Note:  Disclaimer and audit information is located at the end of this document. 

## **Prior Authorization Policy** 

## **Products Affected:** 

- Stelara (ustekinumab) subcutaneous injection 

- Stelara® (ustekinumab) IV (induction of therapy only) 

The Plan may authorize coverage of the above products for members meeting the following criteria: 

--- end of page.page_number=1 ---

|**Covered**<br>**Use**|All medically accepted indications not otherwise excluded|
|---|---|
|**Exclusion**<br>**Criteria**|Use in combination with other biologics|
|**Required**<br>**Medical**<br>**Information**|**Moderate to severe Active Crohn’s Disease (CD);** **_AND_**<br>1. The member is 18 years of age or older;**AND**<br>2. The requested medication is prescribed by or in consultation with a<br>gastroenterologist;**AND**<br>3. Documentation of ONE of the following:<br>a. An inadequate response or adverse reaction to at least a three<br>consecutive month trial of at least ONE immunomodulator (e.g.<br>azathioprine, 6-mercaptopurine, methotrexate) ;**_OR_**<br>b. An inadequate response or adverse reaction to at least a three<br>consecutive month trial of one biologic DMARD that is FDA-<br>approved for Crohn’s disease;**_OR_**<br>c. Supporting documentation (chart notes) of the member’s Harvey<br>Bradshaw Index score (prior to treatment with the requested<br>agent) indicating moderately active (8-16) or severely active (17-<br>100) disease;**_AND_**<br>4. Documentation of ONE of the following:<br>a. An inadequate response or adverse response to at least a three<br>consecutive month trial ofHumira ora preferred adalimumab<br>biosimilar product (adalimumab-aacf, adalimumab-adaz,<br>adalimumab-adbm, adalimumab-fjkp, adalimumab-ryvk),,<br>Rinvoq, or infliximab (generic for Remicade); OR<br>b. A contraindication to all of the following: adalimumab, infliximab<br>(generic for Remicade), and Rinvoq ;**_AND_**<br>5. Documentation that the requested dose will not exceed FDA-approved<br>dosing (see Appendix A);**_AND_** <br>6. If the request if for Stelara IV BOTH of the following:|



> _+ Plan_ refers to Boston Medical Center Health Plan, Inc. which operates under the trade name WellSense Health Plan. Policy Title Adalimumab Products 

2 of 11 

--- end of page.page_number=2 ---

- a. The member will receive induction dosing with Stelara intravenous within two months of initiating therapy with Stelara subcutaneous; **AND** 

- b. It will be used for induction therapy only. 

## **Moderate to severe plaque psoriasis (PsO)** 

For the approval of the 45 mg syringe/vial: 

1. The member is 6 years of age or older; **AND** 

2. The requested medications prescribed by or in consultation with a dermatologist or rheumatologist; **AND** 

3. ONE of the following: 

   - a. Involvement of at least 3% of total body surface area; **OR** 

   - b. Hands, feet, scalp, face, or genital area affected; **AND** 

4. Documentation of ONE of the following: 

   - a. An inadequate response or adverse reaction to at least a three consecutive  month trial of any one of the following combinations (please note: these combinations DO NOT have to be used concurrently): 

   - i. one topical agent plus one systemic agent; _**OR**_ 

   - ii. one topical agent plus one phototherapy; _**OR**_ 

   - iii. one systemic agent plus one phototherapy; _**OR**_ two systemic agents; _**OR**_ 

   - iv. A contraindication to all conventional therapies (topical agents, phototherapy, and systemic agents); _**OR**_ 

   - b. An inadequate response or adverse reaction to at least a three consecutive month trial of one biologic DMARD that is FDAapproved for plaque psoriasis; _**AND**_ 

5. Documentation of ONE of the following: 

   - a. An inadequate response or adverse reaction to at least a three consecutive month trial of Enbrel **,** of Humira or a preferred adalimumab biosimilar product (adalimumab-aacf, 

> _+ Plan_ refers to Boston Medical Center Health Plan, Inc. which operates under the trade name WellSense Health Plan. Policy Title 

Adalimumab Products 

3 of 11 

--- end of page.page_number=3 ---

adalimumab-adaz, adalimumab-adbm, adalimumab-fjkp, adalimumab-ryvk), infliximab (generic for Remicade), Otezla, or Taltz; **OR** 

   - b. A contraindication to ALL of the following: Enbrel, adalimumab, infliximab (generic for Remicade), Otezla, and Taltz; **AND** 

6. Documentation that the requested dose will not exceed FDAapproved dosing (see Appendix A) 

7. _If the 90 mg syringe is requested_ , approve if the member meets ALL of the above and one of the following: 

   - a. Member weighs > 100 kg; _**OR**_ 

   - b. Member is currently receiving the 90 mg syringe; _**OR**_ 

   - c. Member has received standard dosing with the 45 mg syringe/vial for at least three months with inadequate efficacy. 

## **Psoriatic Arthritis (PsA) :** 

For the approval of the 45 mg syringe/vial 

1. The member is 6 years of age or older; **AND** 

2. The requested medications prescribed by or in consultation with a dermatologist or rheumatologist; **AND** 

3. Documentation of ONE of the following: 

   - a. An inadequate response or adverse reaction to a three consecutive month trial of one non-biologic DMARD or contraindication to ALL non-biologic DMARDs or current use of a non-biologic DMARD; _**OR**_ 

   - b. An inadequate response or adverse reaction to at least a three consecutive month trial of one biologic DMARD that is FDAapproved for Psoriatic Arthritis (PsA); _**AND**_ 

4. Documentation of ONE of the following: 

   - a. An inadequate response or adverse reaction at least a three consecutive month trial of Enbrel **,** Humira or a preferred 

> _+ Plan_ refers to Boston Medical Center Health Plan, Inc. which operates under the trade name WellSense Health Plan. Policy Title Adalimumab Products 

4 of 11 

--- end of page.page_number=4 ---

adalimumab biosimilar product (adalimumab-aacf, adalimumabadaz, adalimumab-adbm, adalimumab-fjkp, adalimumab-ryvk), Xeljanz infliximab (generic for Remicade), Otezla, Rinvoq, or Taltz; _**OR**_ 

   - b. A contraindication to ALL of the following: Enbrel, adalimumab, Xeljanz infliximab (generic for Remicade), Rinvoq, Otezla and Taltz; _**AND**_ 

5. Documentation that the requested dose will not exceed FDA-approved dosing (see Appendix A); _**AND**_ 

6. _If the 90 mg syringe is requested_ , approve if the member meets ALL of the above and ONE of the following: 

   - a. Member weighs > 100 kg; _**OR**_ 

   - b. Member is currently receiving the 90 mg syringe; _**OR**_ 

   - c. Member has received standard dosing with the 45 mg syringe/vial for at least three months with inadequate efficacy. 

## **Moderate to severely active Ulcerative Colitis (UC):** 

1. The member is 18 years of age or older; **AND** 

2. The requested medication is prescribed by or in consultation with a gastroenterologist; **AND** 

3. Documentation of one of the following: 

   - a. An inadequate response or adverse reaction to at least a three consecutive month trial of ONE of the following or a contraindication to them ALL: 

      - i. 5-aminosalicylic acid, e.g. mesalamine  (for induction and/or maintenance of remission) 

      - ii. thiopurines, e.g. azathiopurine or mercaptopurine (for maintenance of remission only) 

      - iii. corticosteroids(for induction of remission only); _**OR**_ 

> _+ Plan_ refers to Boston Medical Center Health Plan, Inc. which operates under the trade name WellSense Health Plan. Policy Title Adalimumab Products 

5 of 11 

--- end of page.page_number=5 ---

   - b. An inadequate response, or adverse reaction to at least a three consecutive month trial of one biologic DMARD that is FDAapproved for UC; _**AND**_ 

   - c. Documentation that the requested dose will not exceed FDAapproved dosing (see Appendix A); _**AND**_ 

   - d. Documentation of one of the following: 

- a. An inadequate response or adverse reaction to at least a three month consecutive trial of Humira or a preferred adalimumab biosimilar product (adalimumab-aacf, adalimumab-adaz, adalimumab-adbm, adalimumab-fjkp, adalimumab-ryvk), Rinvoq, Xeljanz, or infliximab (generic for Remicade); _**OR**_ 

- b. A contraindication to ALL of the following:  adalimumab, Rinvoq, Xeljanz, and infliximab (generic for Remicade). 

- **Coverage** Initial: 6 months **Duration** Continuation: 12 months **Other** Reauthorization: **criteria** 1. Initial criteria have been met; _**AND**_ 2. One of the following: 

      - a. The member has had a positive response to therapy; _**OR**_ b. Documentation of clinical justification to continue therapy with the requested medication 

## **Appendix A – FDA Approved Dosing** 

|**Diagnosis**|**FDA Approved Dosing**|
|---|---|
|Crohn Disease|Induction: IV:≤55 kg: 260 mg as single dose, >55 kg to 85 kg:<br>390 mg as single dose, >85 kg: 520 mg as single dose<br>Maintenance: SUBQ: 90 mg every 8 weeks; begin maintenance<br>dosing8 weeks after the IV induction dose.|
|Plaque psoriasis|≤100 kg: 45 mg at 0 and 4 weeks, and then every 12 weeks<br>thereafter.|



> _+ Plan_ refers to Boston Medical Center Health Plan, Inc. which operates under the trade name WellSense Health Plan. Policy Title 

Adalimumab Products 

6 of 11 

--- end of page.page_number=6 ---

||>100 kg: 90 mg at 0 and 4 weeks, and then every 12 weeks<br>thereafter.|
|---|---|
|Psoriatic arthritis|Initial and maintenance: 45 mg at 0 and 4 weeks, and then every<br>12 weeks thereafter.<br>Coexistent psoriatic arthritis and moderate to severe plaque<br>psoriasis in patients >100 kg: Initial and maintenance: 90 mg at 0<br>and 4 weeks,and then every12 weeks thereafter.|
|Ulcerative colitis|Induction: IV:≤55 kg: 260 mg as single dose, > 55 kg to 85 kg:<br>390 mg as single dose, >85 kg: 520 mg as single dose.<br>Maintenance: SUBQ: 90 mg every 8 weeks; begin maintenance<br>dosing8 weeks after the IV induction dose.|



## **Appendix B - Non-Biologic DMARD Treatment Options** 

Note: other trials may be considered on a case-by-case basis 

|Diagnosis|Non-Biologic DMARD Treatment<br>Options|
|---|---|
|Plaque Psoriasis|Methotrexate<br>Azathioprine<br>Cyclosporine|
|Psoriatic Arthritis|Methotrexate<br>Leflunomide<br>Sulfasalazine<br>Azathioprine|



## **Applicable Coding** 

|Code|Medication|
|---|---|
|J3358|Stelara (ustekinumab injection)|



> _+ Plan_ refers to Boston Medical Center Health Plan, Inc. which operates under the trade name WellSense Health Plan. Policy Title Adalimumab Products 

7 of 11 

--- end of page.page_number=7 ---

## **Clinical Background Information and References** 

1. Cohen R. Management of moderate to severe ulcerative colitis in adults. UpToDate. https://www.uptodate.com, accessed June 2024. 

2. Elmets, C. Korman, N. Farley Prater, E. et. al. Joint AAD–NPF Guidelines of care for the management and treatment of psoriasis with topical therapy and alternative medicine modalities for psoriasis severity measures. Journal of the American Association of Dermatology. 84(2):p432-470. Feb. 2021. Accessed July 2024. 

3. Elmets, C. Lim, H, Wu, J. et. al. Joint American Academy of Dermatology–National Psoriasis Foundation guidelines of care for the management and treatment of psoriasis with phototherapy. Journal of the American Association of Dermatology. 81(3):p775-804. Sept. 2019. Accessed July 2024. 

4. Feuersteain, Joseph D., et al. "AGA Clinical Practice Guidelines on the Medical Management of Moderate to Severe Luminal and Perianal Fistulizing Crohn’s Disease." Gastroenterology, vol. 160, no. 7, June 2021, pp. 2496-508. Accessed July 2024. 

5. Feuerstein, J. Isaacs, K. Schneider, Y. et. al.  AGA Clinical Practice Guidelines on the Management of Moderate to Severe Ulcerative Colitis. Clinical Practice Guideline. 158 (5);p 1450-1461, April 2020. Accessed July 2024. 

6. Galdman, D. Ritchlin, C. Treatment of psoriatic arthritis. UpToDate. May 2023. Accessed June 2024. 

7. Gelfand JM, Wan J, Callis Duffin K, et al. Comparative effectiveness of commonly used systemic treatments or phototherapy for moderate to severe plaque psoriasis in the clinical practice setting. Arch Dermatol. 2012 Apr;148(4):487-94. Accessed June 2024. 

8. Gordon KB, Papp KA, Langley RG, et al. Long-term safety experience of ustekinumab in patients with moderate to severe psoriasis (Part II of II): results from analyses of infections and malignancy from pooled phase II and III clinical trials. J Am Acad Dermatol. 2012 May; 66(5):742-51. 

9. Hashash JA, Reguerio M. Medical management of moderate to severe Crohn disease in adults. UpToDate® available at https://www.uptodate.com, accessed June 2024. 

10. Lichtensein, GR, Loftus EV, Isaacs KL, et al. ACG Clinical Guideline: Management of Crohn's Disease in Adults. Am J Gastroenterol 2018; 113:481–517.  Accessed July 2022. 

11. Menter, A. Strober, B. Kaplan, D.  et. al. Joint AAD-NPF guidelines of care for the management and treatment of psoriasis with biologics. Association of Dermatology. 80(4):p1029-1072. April 2019. Accessed July 2024. 

12. Reguerio M, Hashash JA. Overview of the medical management of mild (low risk) Crohn disease in adults. UpToDate® available at https://www.uptodate.com, accessed June 2023. 

> _+ Plan_ refers to Boston Medical Center Health Plan, Inc. which operates under the trade name WellSense Health Plan. Policy Title Adalimumab Products 

8 of 11 

--- end of page.page_number=8 ---

13. Rubin DT, Ananthakrishnan AN, Siegel CA, et al. ACG Clinical Guideline: Ulcerative Colitis in Adults. Am J Gastroenterol 2019;114:384–413. Accessed July 2024. 

14. Singh JA, Gordon, G, Ogdie A,  et al. 2021 American College of Rheumatology Guideline for the Treatment of Psoriatic Arthritis. Arthritis & Rheumatology. 2021 Jan; 71(1):5-32. Accessed July 2024. 

15. Stelara (ustekinumab) [package insert]. Horsham, PA: Janssen Biotech, Inc.; Accessed July 2024. 

16. Ungprasert P, Thongprayoon C, Davis JM 3rd. Indirect comparisons of the efficacy of biological agents in patients with psoriatic arthritis with an inadequate response to traditional diseasemodifying anti-rheumatic drugs or to non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs: A metaanalysis. Semin Arthritis Rheum. 2015 Oct 3. 

## **Policy History** 

|**Original**<br>**Approval Date**|**Original Effective**<br>**Date**|**Original Effective**<br>**Date**|**Policy Owner**|**Policy Owner**|**Approved by**|**Approved by**|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|12/1/2020||1/1/2021||Pharmacy<br>Services||Pharmacy & Therapeutics<br>(P&T) Committee, NH<br>DHHS|



|**Policy Revisions History**|**Policy Revisions History**|**Policy Revisions History**|**Policy Revisions History**|
|---|---|---|---|
|**Review Date**|**Summary of Revisions**|**Revision**<br>**Effective Date**|**Approved by**|
|12/1/2020|9.193 Stelara Policy retired, new<br>policy created. Updated age<br>expansion for PS; updated policy<br>for trial and failure to align with NH<br>state PDL requirements|1/1/2021|P&T Committee, NH<br>DHHS|
|8/12/2021|Criteria updates for CD to align<br>with ACG guidelines, removal of 5-<br>ASA and corticosteroid trial<br>requirements. Removal of criteria<br>for severe form of disease to<br>bypass trial requirements for both<br>CD and UC. Addition of criteria to|12/1/2021|P&T Committee, NH<br>DHHS|



> _+ Plan_ refers to Boston Medical Center Health Plan, Inc. which operates under the trade name WellSense Health Plan. Policy Title 

Adalimumab Products 

9 of 11 

--- end of page.page_number=9 ---

## **Policy Revisions History** 

||all indications to  allow a previous<br>trial of a biologic DMARD to bypass<br>non-biologic DMARD criteria and 3<br>month trial requirements or<br>contraindication to all required trial<br>agents.|||
|---|---|---|---|
|8/11/2022|Annual Review: Added language<br>regarding IV dosing for induction<br>therapyonly|9/1/2022|P&T Committee, NH<br>DHHS|
|8/19/2022|Update to reflect new PDL<br>preferred agents in trial and failure<br>requirements. Addition of age<br>expansion≥6 years or older for<br>PsA and addition of dosing<br>restrictions for 90mg dose for PsA<br>and PS.|9/1/2022|P&T Committee, NH<br>DHHS|
|7/1/2023|Update to reflect new PDL<br>preferred agents in trial and failure<br>requirements.|7/1/2023|P&T Committee, NH<br>DHHS|
|8/10/2023|P&T annual review:<br>Update CD and UC baseline criteria<br>to align with guidelines.<br>Require documentation of the use<br>of required trial/failure agents prior<br>to approval.<br>Update reauthorization criteria to<br>standard.<br>Addition of dosing criteria and<br>appendix.|12/1/2023|P&T Committee, NH<br>DHHS|
|5/1/2024|PDL Alignment:  Minor Formatting<br>Changes.  In the revised policy,<br>preferred adalimumab biosimilar<br>products are included as<br>alternatives for diagnoses of<br>Crohn's Disease, Plaque Psoriasis,<br>Psoriatic Arthritis, and Ulcerative<br>Colitis.|9/1/2024|P&T Committee, NH<br>DHHS|
|8/8/2024|P&T annual review: No<br>recommended changes.||P&T Committee,|



> _+ Plan_ refers to Boston Medical Center Health Plan, Inc. which operates under the trade name WellSense Health Plan. Policy Title Adalimumab Products 

10 of 11 

--- end of page.page_number=10 ---

## **Policy Revisions History** 

|9/1/2024|Policy updated to reflect Rinvoq<br>and adalimumab-ryvk as<br>preferred product on PDL.|3/1/2025|P&T Committee, NH<br>DHHS||
|---|---|---|---|---|



## **Next Review Date** 

8/2025 

## **Other Applicable Policies** 

## **Reference to Applicable Laws and Regulations, If Any** 

## **Disclaimer Information** 

Medical Policies are the Plan’s guidelines for determining the medical necessity of certain services or supplies for purposes of determining coverage.  These Policies may also describe when a service or supply is considered experimental or investigational, or cosmetic.  In making coverage decisions, the Plan uses these guidelines and other Plan Policies, as well as the Member’s benefit document, and when appropriate, coordinates with the Member’s health care Providers to consider the individual Member’s health care needs. 

Plan Policies are developed in accordance with applicable state and federal laws and regulations, and accrediting organization standards (including NCQA). Medical Policies are also developed, as appropriate, with consideration of the medical necessity definitions in various Plan products, review of current literature, consultation with practicing Providers in the Plan’s service area who are medical experts in the particular field, and adherence to FDA and other government agency policies.  Applicable state or federal mandates, as well as the Member’s benefit document, take precedence over these guidelines. Policies are reviewed and updated on an annual basis, or more frequently as needed. Treating providers are solely responsible for the medical advice and treatment of Members. 

The use of this Policy is neither a guarantee of payment nor a final prediction of how a specific claim(s) will be adjudicated. Reimbursement is based on many factors, including member eligibility and benefits on the date of service; medical necessity; utilization management guidelines (when applicable); coordination of benefits; adherence with applicable Plan policies and procedures; clinical coding criteria; claim editing logic; and the applicable Plan – Provider agreement. 

> _+ Plan_ refers to Boston Medical Center Health Plan, Inc. which operates under the trade name WellSense Health Plan. Policy Title Adalimumab Products 

11 of 11 

--- end of page.page_number=11 ---
