**Aetna Better Health of New Jersey** 

**==> picture [146 x 29] intentionally omitted <==**

## **Addendum to the Protocol for Biological Response Modifiers in the Treatment of Plaque Psoriasis Approved October 2023** 

## **Approved July 2021** 

## **Addendum:** 

- Addition of new product, Sotyktu® (approved September 2022) 

- Add mild Plaque Psoriasis for Otezla (approved December 2021) 

- Add Enbrel for ≥ 4 years old (per PI) 

- Add Humira for ≥ 4 years old (Per 2020 American Academy of Dermatology psoriasis in pediatric patients guidelines) 

- Add FDA approved biosimilars of above products 

- Remove methotrexate and cyclosporine from the list of conventional therapy to try prior to use of BRMs 

## **Preferred Agents:** 

ADALIMUMAB-ADAZ, ADALIMUMAB-FKJP, HADLIMA, ENBREL, OTEZLA, TALTZ, SKYRIZI 

## **Non-Preferred Anti-Tumor Necrosis Factors (TNFs):** 

All Non-Preferred Adalimumab Biosimilar Products, Infliximab Products, Cimzia, and Simponi require trial and failure of a preferred adalimumab product AND Enbrel, where indicated, in addition to all other clinical criteria. 

## **Non-Preferred Cytokines and Cell Adhesion Molecule (CAM) Antagonists:** 

Require trial and failure of a preferred adalimumab product AND one additional preferred product (Enbrel, Otezla), where indicated, in addition to all other clinical criteria. 

Abrilada (adalimumab-afzb) Amjevita (adalimumab-atto) Avsola (infliximab) Cimzia (certolizumab) 

Cosentyx (secukinumab) [≥ 6 years old] Cyltezo (adalimumab-adbm) Enbrel (etanercept) [≥ 4 years old] 

Hadlima (adalimumab-bwwd) Hulio (adalimumab-fkjp) Humira (adalimumab) [≥ 4 years old] Hyrimoz (adalimumab-adaz) Idacio (adalimumab-aacf) Ilumya (tildrakizumab) Inflectra (infliximab) Otezla (apremilast) 

--- end of page.page_number=1 ---

**Aetna Better Health of New Jersey** 

**==> picture [146 x 29] intentionally omitted <==**

Remicade (infliximab) Renflexis (infliximab) Siliq (bradalumab) Simlandi (adalimumab-ryvk) Skyrizi (risankizimab-rzaa) Sotyktu (deucravacitinib) Stelara (ustekinumab) [≥ 6 years old] Taltz (ixekizumab) [≥ 6 years old] Tremfya (guselkumab) Yuflyma (adalimumab-aaty) Yusimry (adalimumab-aqvh) 

## **Background:** 

_Biologic response modifiers (BRMs), also known as immunomodulators, are the class of medications that target the disease-causing mechanism. They are used in autoimmune diseases as first-line medications or after the failure of conventional agents. Serious infections are the most severe complications and require screening before initiation, and monitoring while patients are taking the medications._ 

## **Criteria for Approval:** 

- A. Patient meets **ALL** the following: 

1. For all drugs except Otezla: Diagnosis of moderate to severe plaque psoriasis 

2. For Otezla: Diagnosis of plaque psoriasis 

3. Medication is used for an adult patient except where otherwise indicated 

4. Patient must have disease affecting crucial body areas such as hands, feet, face, or genitals OR either a or b: 

   - a. For all drug requests except Otezla: Patient must have clinical documentation of a diagnosis of moderate to severe plaque psoriasis characterized by greater than or equal to 3% body surface involved 

   - b. For Otezla requests: Patient must have clinical documentation of a diagnosis of mild to severe plaque psoriasis characterized by greater than or equal to 2% body surface involved 

5. History of trial and failure of at least **TWO** of the following conventional therapies at maximally tolerated doses ( **TWO** months of each) unless contraindicated or clinically significant adverse effects are experienced (document drug, date, and duration of trial): 

   - i. **Topical corticosteroids** 

   - ii. Acitretin 

   - iii. Topical Vitamin D analogs (e.g., calcitriol) 

   - iv. Calcineurin inhibitors (e.g., tacrolimus or pimecrolimus) 

--- end of page.page_number=2 ---

**Aetna Better Health of New Jersey** 

**==> picture [146 x 29] intentionally omitted <==**

## v. Topical retinoic acid derivatives 

## vi. Phototherapy 

- **Note: American Academy of Dermatology recommends topical steroids as first line therapy.** 

6. Initial prescription is written by or in consultation with a dermatologist 

7. Patient does not have any contraindications to therapy 

8. Patient is not receiving medication with another BRM 

9. Medication is prescribed in accordance with Food and Drug Administration (FDA) established indication and dosing regimens or in accordance with medically appropriate off-label indication and dosing according to American Hospital Formulary Service, Micromedex, Clinical Pharmacology, Wolters Kluwer Lexi-Drugs (Lexicomp), national guidelines, or other peer-reviewed evidence 

10. Prior to initiation of therapy, patient is tested for tuberculosis (TB) [where applicable] 

11. Weight must be received for drugs that have weight-based dosing for any dose change request 

## **Continuation of therapy:** 

1. Documentation of positive clinical response to therapy 

2. Patient is not receiving medication with another BRM 

3. Patient is monitored for active TB during treatment (where applicable) 

4. Patient is monitored for lymphoma and other malignancies during treatment (where applicable) 

## **Note: Suicidal ideation and behavior, including completed suicides, have occurred in patients treated with Siliq.** 

## **Approval Duration:** 6 Months 

**Quantity Level Limit:** Reference Formulary for drug specific quantity level limits 

## _**References:**_ 

1. Cimzia [packet insert] UCB, Inc. 1950 Lake Park Drive Smyrna, GA 30080. September 2019 

2. Cosentyx [packet insert] Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation East Hanover, NJ 07936. June 2020 

3. Enbrel [packet insert] Amgen. Thousand Oaks, CA 91320. April 2021 

4. Humira [packet insert] AbbVie Inc. North Chicago, IL 60064. February 2121 

5. Ilumya [packet insert] Merck & Co. Inc., White House Station, NJ 08889. March 2018 

6. Otezla [packet insert] Amgen Inc. Thousand Oaks, CA 91320. June 2020 

7. Remicade [packet insert] Janssen Biotech, Inc. Horsham, PA 19044. November 2013 

8. Skyrizi [packet insert] AbbVie Inc. North Chicago, IL 60064. April 2021 

9. Siliq [packet insert] Bausch Health US, LLC Bridgewater, NJ 08807. April 2020 

10. Sotyktu [packet insert] Bristol-Myers Squibb Company. Princeton, NJ 08543. September 2022 

--- end of page.page_number=3 ---

## **Aetna Better Health of New Jersey** 

**==> picture [146 x 29] intentionally omitted <==**

11. Stelara [packet insert] Janssen Biotech, Inc., Horsham, PA 19044. December 2020 

12. Taltz [packet insert] Eli Lilly and Company, Indianapolis, IN 46285. March 2021 

13. Tremfya [packet insert] Janssen Biotech, Inc., Horsham, PA 19044. July 2020 

14. Menter A et al. Joint AAD-NPF guidelines of care for the management and treatment of psoriasis with biologics. A Am Acad Dermatol 2019;80:1029-72 

15. Pardasani AG, Feldman SR, Clark AR. Treatment of psoriasis: An algorithm-based approach for primary care physicians. Am Fam Physician 2000;61(3):725-733. 

16. Clinical Pharmacology (online database). Tampa FL: Gold Standard Inc.: 2019. Updated periodically 

17. Feldman SR. Treatment of psoriasis in adults. UpToDate February 2021. Accessed online 5.3.21 @ https://www.uptodate.com/contents/treatment-of-psoriasis-in-adults 

18. Kim WB. Diagnosis and management of psoriasis. Can Fam Physician. 2017 Apr; 63(4): 278–285 

19. Wu, JJ. Contemporary Management of Moderate to Severe Psoriasis. Am J Manag Care. 2017;23:S403-S416 

20. Menter A, Cordoro KM, Davis DMR, et al. Joint American Academy of Dermatology – National Psoriasis Foundation guidelines of care for the management and treatment of psoriasis in pediatric patients. J Am Acad Dermatol. January 2020;82:161-201. 

--- end of page.page_number=4 ---
