**==> picture [108 x 21] intentionally omitted <==**

|**Clinical Policy Title:**|guselkumab|
|---|---|
|**Policy Number:**|RxA.729|
|**Drug(s) Applied:**|Tremfya®|
|**Original Policy Date:**|04/18/2022|
|**Last Review Date:**|04/10/2025|
|**Line of Business Policy Applies to:**|All lines of business (except Medicare)|



## **Criteria** 

## **I. Initial Approval Criteria** 

## **A. Plaque Psoriasis** (must meet all) **:** 

1. Diagnosis of moderate to severe plaque psoriasis; 

2. Trial and failure of ≥ 3 months of at least one (1) conventional systemic therapy (methotrexate, cyclosporin, acitretin) or phototherapy (psoralen plus ultraviolet A light), unless contraindicated or clinically significant adverse effects are experienced. 

## **B. Psoriatic Arthritis** (must meet all) **:** 

1. Diagnosis of active psoriatic arthritis. 

## **C. Ulcerative Colitis** (must meet all): 

1. Diagnosis of moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis; 

2. Medication not prescribed concurrently with any biological disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs) or JAK inhibitors; 

3. Trial and failure of at least one (1) of the following conventional systemic therapies, unless contraindicated or clinically significant adverse effects are experienced (a, b, c, or d): 

   - a. 6-mercaptopurine 

   - b. Aminosalicylate (e.g., mesalamine, olsalazine, sulfasalazine); 

   - c. Azathioprine; 

   - d. Corticosteroids (e.g., prednisone). 

## **D. Crohn’s Disease** (must meet all): 

1. Diagnosis of moderately to severely active Crohn's disease; 

2. Member meets one of the following (a or b): 

   - a. Trial and failure of ≥ 3-month of at least one (1) conventional systemic therapy (e.g., azathioprine, 6- mercaptopurine, methotrexate), unless contraindicated or clinically significant adverse effects are experienced; 

   - b. Trial and failure of corticosteroids (e.g., prednisone, methylprednisolone, budesonide), unless contraindicated or significant adverse effects experienced. 

## **Approval Duration** 

## **All Lines of Business (except Medicare):** 12 months 

This clinical policy has been developed to authorize, modify, or determine coverage for individuals with similar conditions. Specific care and treatment may vary depending on individual need and benefits covered by the plan. This policy is not intended to dictate to providers how to practice medicine, nor does it constitute a contract or guarantee regarding payment or results.  This document may contain prescription brand name drugs that are trademarks of pharmaceutical manufacturers that are not affiliated with RxAdvance. 

© 2025 RxAdvance Corporation. All rights reserved.  This policy contains the confidential and proprietary information of RxAdvance.  Unauthorized reproduction, distribution, modification, display, storage, transmission, or use of this policy or any information contained herein is strictly prohibited. Revised 03/2025 Page 1 of 3 

_v 2.0.01.1_ 

--- end of page.page_number=1 ---

**==> picture [108 x 30] intentionally omitted <==**

## **II. Continued Therapy Approval** 

## **A. All Indications in Section I** (must meet all): 

1. Member is currently receiving medication in the past 120 days that has been authorized by RxAdvance or the member has met initial approval criteria. 

## **Approval Duration** 

## **All Lines of Business (except Medicare):** 12 months 

## **References** 

1. Singh JA, Guyatt G, Ogdie A, et al. 2018 American College of Rheumatology/National Psoriasis Foundation Guideline for the treatment of psoriatic arthritis. American College of Rheumatology. 2019; 71(1):5-32. doi: 10.1002/art.40726. Available at: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/30499246/. Accessed March 31, 2025. 

2. Gossec L, Smolen JS, Ramiro S, et al. European League Against Rheumatism (EULAR) recommendations for the management of psoriatic arthritis with pharmacological therapies: 2015 update. Ann Rheum Dis 2015; 0:1-12. doi:10.1136/annrheumdis-2015-208337. Available at: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/26644232/. Accessed March 31, 2025. 

3. Menter A, Gottlieb A, Feldman, SR, et al. American Academy of Dermatology. Guidelines of care for the management of psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis: Section 2. Psoriatic arthritis: overview and guidelines of care for treatment with an emphasis on the biologics. J Am Acad Dermatol May 2008; 58(5): 826-50. Available at: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/18423260/. Accessed March 31, 2025. 

4. Menter A, Korman NF, Elmets CA, et al. American Academy of Dermatology. Guidelines of care for the management of psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis. Section 4. Guidelines of care for the management and treatment of psoriasis with traditional systemic agents. J Am Acad Dermatol. 10.1016/j.jaad.2009.03.027. Available at: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/19493586/. Accessed March 31, 2025. 

5. Menter A, Korman, NJ, Elmets CA, et al. American Academy of Dermatology. Guidelines of care for the management of psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis. Section 3. Guidelines of care for the management and treatment of psoriasis with topical therapies. J Am Acad Dermatol. 2009; 60:643-659. Available at: 

   - https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/19217694/. Accessed March 31, 2025. 

6. Menter A, Gottlieb A, Feldman SR, et al. American Academy of Dermatology. Guidelines of care for the management of psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis. Section 1. Overview of psoriasis and guidelines of care for the treatment of - 

psoriasis with biologics. J Am Acad Dermatol. 2008; 58:826-850. Available at: https://www.jaad.org/article/S0190 9622(08)00273-9/fulltext. Accessed March 31, 2025. 

|**Review/Revision History**|**Review/Revision Date**|**P&T Approval Date**|
|---|---|---|
|RxA.592.Biologic_DMARDs was last reviewed<br>and updated on 01/05/2022 and archived on<br>04/18/2022. For details, please refer to<br>RxA.592.Biologic_DMARDs|01/05/2022|04/18/2022|
|Drug specific policy for Trefmya® was created<br>based on RxA.592.Biologics_DMARDs:<br>1. Initial Approval Criteria, 1.A.4: Updated<br>trial and failure criteria to rephrase and<br>include phototherapy (psoralen plus<br>ultraviolet A light [PUVA]).<br>2. Appendix A: Updated to include<br>abbreviations PUVA: Psoralen plus<br>ultraviolet A light.|02/15/2022|04/18/2022|



© 2025 RxAdvance Corporation. All rights reserved.  This policy contains the confidential and proprietary information of RxAdvance.  Unauthorized reproduction, distribution, modification, display, storage, transmission, or use of this policy or any information contained herein is strictly prohibited. Revised 03/2025 Page 2 of 3 

_v 2.0.01.1_ 

--- end of page.page_number=2 ---

**==> picture [108 x 30] intentionally omitted <==**

|3. Appendix B, Drug Name: Updated to<br>remove discontinued brand-name<br>therapeutic alternative Soriatane®.<br>4. Appendix B, Drug Name: Updated to<br>include brand-name therapeutic<br>alternative of other biological DMARDs.<br>5. Disclaimer about contraindications<br>"Contraindications listed reflect<br>statements made in the manufacturer's<br>package insert..." was added to Appendix<br>C.<br>6. References were reviewed and updated.|||
|---|---|---|
|Policy was reviewed:<br>1. References were reviewed and updated|03/27/2023|04/13/2023|
|Policy was reviewed.|12/1/2023|12/1/2023|
|Policy was reviewed:<br>1. Removed clause of prior DMARD trial|3/1/2024|3/1/2024|
|Policy was reviewed:<br>1. Removed prescriber restrictions.<br>2. Updated to add new indication,<br>Ulcerative Colitis.<br>3. Updated Continued therapy approval to<br>“Member is currently receiving<br>medication that has been authorized..”<br>4. References were reviewed and updated.|12/03/2024|12/5/2024|
|Policy was reviewed:<br>1. Updated to add new indication, Crohn’s<br>Disease.<br>2. Updated continuation of therapy<br>language.<br>3. References were reviewed and updated.|03/31/2025|04/10/2025|



© 2025 RxAdvance Corporation. All rights reserved.  This policy contains the confidential and proprietary information of RxAdvance.  Unauthorized reproduction, distribution, modification, display, storage, transmission, or use of this policy or any information contained herein is strictly prohibited. Revised 03/2025 Page 3 of 3 

_v 2.0.01.1_ 

--- end of page.page_number=3 ---
