**==> picture [61 x 62] intentionally omitted <==**

## **STATE OF WEST VIRGINIA DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN RESOURCES BUREAU FOR MEDICAL SERVICES** 

**==> picture [96 x 63] intentionally omitted <==**

**Office of Pharmacy Services Prior Authorization Criteria** 

## **Cytokine & CAM antagonist criteria** _**Effective 1/01/2022**_ **Prior Authorization Request Form** 

**Prior Authorization for any agent in this class requires the following criteria to be met. Additional criteria may be required for specific indications; off-label requests require an appeal:** 

- **Diagnoses Must Accompany All Requests** 

- Patient must meet the minimum age recommended by the manufacturer for the FDA-approved indication; **AND** 

- Initial treatment plan must be done by, or in consultation with an appropriate specialist (such as a dermatologist, gastroenterologist or rheumatologist); **AND** 

- A negative tuberculin skin test must be submitted prior to initiation of therapy. 

- Off-label use must be appealed to the Medical Director and be accompanied with a letter from the prescriber detailing the clinical rationale for the request. 

- _DMARD refers to a non-biologic disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drug and includes such agents as methotrexate (MTX), sulfasalazine, leflunomide, and cyclosporine among other agents)._ 

- Please refer to the table below for preferred agents (highlighted) and non-preferred agents with FDA approved indications. 

## **THE FOLLOWING INDICATION-SPECIFIC CRITERIA MUST ALSO BE SATISFIED:** 

## ŌĆó **Ankylosing spondylitis, Plaque Psoriasis and Psoriatic Arthritis:** 

   - **Plaque psoriasis** : Preferred agents require evidence of failure after at least 90 days of topical therapy* with two different agents classified as an emollient, corticosteroid, topical retinoid or vitamin D analog. A 90-day trial of one DMARD (or a systemic retinoid such as acitretin) is also required. 

      - _Topical therapy requirement is waived for moderate-to-severe disease affecting at least 5% of the BSA_ 

      - _or crucial body areas such as the hands, feet, face, neck, genitals/groin, or intertriginous areas._ 

   - **Psoriatic Arthritis:** Preferred agents require a 90-day trial of one DMARD. 

   - **Ankylosing Spondylitis:** Preferred agents require failure of two 30-day trials of NSAIDs. 

   - Note: Taltz may be authorized only after a 90-day trial of one preferred ANTI-TNF agent. 

   - Non-preferred agents require 90-day trials of all preferred agents which are indicated for the diagnosis. 

- 

## **Rheumatoid arthritis:** 

- Preferred agents require a 90-day trial of a DMARD. 

- Non-preferred agents require 90-day trials of each of the following: one DMARD and each preferred agent indicated for Rheumatoid arthritis. 

**Updated: 1/1/22 PS DUR Board approved: 11/20/2019, 11/17/2021** 

--- end of page.page_number=1 ---

**==> picture [61 x 62] intentionally omitted <==**

## **STATE OF WEST VIRGINIA DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN RESOURCES BUREAU FOR MEDICAL SERVICES** 

**==> picture [96 x 63] intentionally omitted <==**

## ŌĆó **Juvenile idiopathic arthritis:** 

- Preferred agents each require a 90-day trial of a DMARD. 

- Non-preferred agents require 90-day trials each of: one DMARD and each preferred agent indicated for Juvenile idiopathic arthritis. 

## ŌĆó **CrohnŌĆÖs Disease (Adult and Pediatric):** 

- Preferred agents may be authorized upon demonstration of an inadequate response to at least one 14-day trial of corticosteroids or an immunomodulator such as azathioprine, 6- mercaptopurine, or methotrexate. 

- In addition to the above criteria, non-preferred agents require a 90-day trial of each preferred agent indicated for CrohnŌĆÖs disease. 

## ŌĆó **Ulcerative Colitis:** 

- Preferred agents may be authorized upon demonstration of an inadequate response to at least a thirty (30) day course of aminosalicylates (e.g. sulfasalazine, mesalamine) requiring treatment for two (2) or more exacerbations using corticosteroids, such as prednisone. 

- In addition to the above criteria, non-preferred agents require a 90-day trial of each preferred agent indicated for Ulcerative colitis. 

## ŌĆó **Hidradenitis suppurativa:** 

- Preferred agents may be authorized with documentation indicating that the patient has severe disease (Hurley stage III) OR moderate disease (Hurley state II) despite treatment with an oral formulary tetracycline (i.e., doxycycline) OR topical clindamycin. 

## ŌĆó 

## **Uveitis:** 

- Preferred agents may be authorized for a diagnosis of non-infectious uveitis and failure to respond to an appropriate trial of oral/topical corticosteroid therapy, unless contraindicated. 

**FDA-approved indications ŌĆō** _(Preferred agents highlighted)._ _**Current on 1/01/2022 (Table on following page)**_ 

**Updated: 1/1/22 PS DUR Board approved: 11/20/2019, 11/17/2021** 

--- end of page.page_number=2 ---

**==> picture [61 x 62] intentionally omitted <==**

## **STATE OF WEST VIRGINIA DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN RESOURCES BUREAU FOR MEDICAL SERVICES** 

**==> picture [96 x 63] intentionally omitted <==**

|**STATE OF WEST VIRGINIA**<br>**DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN RESOURCES**<br>**BUREAU FOR MEDICAL SERVICES**|**STATE OF WEST VIRGINIA**<br>**DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN RESOURCES**<br>**BUREAU FOR MEDICAL SERVICES**|**STATE OF WEST VIRGINIA**<br>**DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN RESOURCES**<br>**BUREAU FOR MEDICAL SERVICES**|**STATE OF WEST VIRGINIA**<br>**DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN RESOURCES**<br>**BUREAU FOR MEDICAL SERVICES**|**STATE OF WEST VIRGINIA**<br>**DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN RESOURCES**<br>**BUREAU FOR MEDICAL SERVICES**|**STATE OF WEST VIRGINIA**<br>**DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN RESOURCES**<br>**BUREAU FOR MEDICAL SERVICES**|**STATE OF WEST VIRGINIA**<br>**DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN RESOURCES**<br>**BUREAU FOR MEDICAL SERVICES**|**STATE OF WEST VIRGINIA**<br>**DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN RESOURCES**<br>**BUREAU FOR MEDICAL SERVICES**|**STATE OF WEST VIRGINIA**<br>**DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN RESOURCES**<br>**BUREAU FOR MEDICAL SERVICES**|**STATE OF WEST VIRGINIA**<br>**DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN RESOURCES**<br>**BUREAU FOR MEDICAL SERVICES**|**STATE OF WEST VIRGINIA**<br>**DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN RESOURCES**<br>**BUREAU FOR MEDICAL SERVICES**|**STATE OF WEST VIRGINIA**<br>**DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN RESOURCES**<br>**BUREAU FOR MEDICAL SERVICES**|**STATE OF WEST VIRGINIA**<br>**DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN RESOURCES**<br>**BUREAU FOR MEDICAL SERVICES**|**STATE OF WEST VIRGINIA**<br>**DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN RESOURCES**<br>**BUREAU FOR MEDICAL SERVICES**|**STATE OF WEST VIRGINIA**<br>**DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN RESOURCES**<br>**BUREAU FOR MEDICAL SERVICES**|**STATE OF WEST VIRGINIA**<br>**DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN RESOURCES**<br>**BUREAU FOR MEDICAL SERVICES**|**STATE OF WEST VIRGINIA**<br>**DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN RESOURCES**<br>**BUREAU FOR MEDICAL SERVICES**|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
||||||||||||||||||
|**Ankylosing Spondylitis**<br>**Plaque Psoriasis**<br>**Psoriatic Arthritis**<br>**Polyarticular JIA**<br>**Rheumatoid Arthritis**<br>**CrohnŌĆÖs Disease**<br>**Pediatric CrohnŌĆÖs Disease**<br>**Ulcerative Colitis**<br>**Hidradentis Suppurativa**<br>**Uveitis**<br>**Cytokine Release Syndrome**<br>**Giant Cell arteritis**<br>**Systemic JIA**<br>**Periodic Fever Syndromes**<br>**Mechanism of Action**|||||||||||||||||
|**Humira**|adalinumab|’āŠ|’āŠ|’āŠ|’āŠ<br>Ōēź 2 y|<br>’āŠ|’āŠ<br>Ōēź 6 y|<br>’āŠ|’āŠ<br>Ōēź 5 y|<br>’āŠ<br>Ōēź 12 y|<br>’āŠ<br>Ōēź 2 y|||||Anti-TNF|
|**Enbrel**|etanercept|’āŠ|’āŠ<br>Ōēź 4 y|<br>’āŠ|’āŠ<br>Ōēź 2 y|<br>’āŠ||||||||||Anti-TNF|
|**Cosentyx**|secukinumab|’āŠ|’āŠ<br>Ōēź 6 y|<br>’āŠ<br>Ōēź 2 y||||||||||||Anti-IL-17A|
|**Cimzia**|certolizumabpegol|’āŠ|’āŠ|’āŠ||’āŠ|’āŠ|||||||||Anti-TNF|
|**Remicade**|infliximab|’āŠ|’āŠ|’āŠ||’āŠ|’āŠ<br>Ōēź 6y||’āŠ<br>Ōēź 6y|||||||Anti-TNF|
|**Renflexis**|infliximab|’āŠ|’āŠ|’āŠ||’āŠ|’āŠ<br>Ōēź 6y||’āŠ<br>Ōēź 6y|||||||Anti-TNF|
|**Avsola**|infliximab|’āŠ|’āŠ|’āŠ||’āŠ|’āŠ<br>Ōēź 6y||’āŠ<br>Ōēź 6y|||||||Anti-TNF|
|**Inflectra**|infliximab|’āŠ|’āŠ|’āŠ||’āŠ|’āŠ<br>Ōēź 6y||’āŠ<br>Ōēź 6y|||||||Anti-TNF|
|**Simponi**|golimumab|’āŠ||’āŠ||’āŠ|||’āŠ|||||||Anti-TNF|
|**Simponi Aria**|golimumab|’āŠ||’āŠ<br>Ōēź 2y|<br>’āŠ<br>Ōēź 2y|<br>’āŠ||||||||||Anti-TNF|
|**Actemra**|tocilizumab||||’āŠ<br>Ōēź 2y|<br>’āŠ||||||’āŠ|’āŠ|’āŠ<br>Ōēź 2y||Anti-IL-6|
|**Entyvio**|vedolizumab||||||’āŠ||’āŠ|||||||Select. adhesion mol. inhib.|
|**Kineret**|anakinra|||||’āŠ||||||||||IL-1 RA|
|**Ilaris**|canakinumab|||||||||||||’āŠ|’āŠ|IL-1 Beta Inhibitor|
|**Kevzara**|sarilumab|||||’āŠ||||||||||Anti-IL-6|
|**Orencia**|abatacept|||’āŠ|’āŠ<br>Ōēź 2y|<br>’āŠ||||||||||Select. T-Cell costim. blocker|
|**Otezla**|apremilast||’āŠ|’āŠ||||||||||||PDE-4 Enzyme Inhibitor|
|**Siliq**|brodalumab||’āŠ|||||||||||||Anti-IL-17A|
|**Stelara**|ustekinumab||’āŠ<br>Ōēź 6y|<br>’āŠ|||’āŠ||’āŠ|||||||Anti-IL-12/23|
|**Taltz**|ixekizumab|’āŠ|’āŠ<br>Ōēź 6y|<br>’āŠ||||||||||||Anti-IL-17A|
|**Tremfya**|guselkumab||’āŠ|’āŠ||||||||||||Anti-IL-23|
|**Skyrizi**|riskankizumab||’āŠ|’āŠ||||||||||||Anti-IL-23|
|**Olumiant**|baricitinib|||||’āŠ||||||||||JAK inhibitor|
|**Rinvoq ER**|upadacitinib|||’āŠ||’āŠ||||||||||JAK inhibitor|
|**Ilumya**|tildrakizumab||’āŠ|||||||||||||Anti-IL-23|
|**Xeljanz**|tofacitinib|’āŠ||’āŠ|’āŠ<br>Ōēź 2y|<br>’āŠ|||’āŠ|||||||JAK inhibitor|



## **REFERENCES** 

- 1) Lexi-Comp drug monographs for all drugs listed reviewed on 2-22-2019, 11/2021 

- 2) Package Inserts reviewed on 2-22-2019, 11/2021 

- 3) 2015 American College of Rheumatology Guideline for the Treatment of Rheumatoid Arthritis 4) The 2012 BSR and BHPR guideline for the treatment of psoriatic arthritis with biologics 

**Updated: 1/1/22 PS DUR Board approved: 11/20/2019, 11/17/2021** 

--- end of page.page_number=3 ---

**==> picture [61 x 62] intentionally omitted <==**

## **STATE OF WEST VIRGINIA DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN RESOURCES BUREAU FOR MEDICAL SERVICES** 

**==> picture [96 x 63] intentionally omitted <==**

- 5) American College of Rheumatology/Spondylitis Association of America/Spondyloarhtritis Research and Treatment Network 2015 Recommendations for the Treatment of Anykylosing Spondylitis and Noradiographic Axial Spondyloarthritis 

- 6) Crofford _Arthritis Research & Therapy_ 2013, 15(Suppl 3):S2 

- 7) J Braun _et al_ . 2010 update of the ASAS/EULAR recommendations for the management of anykylosing spondylitis. Ann Rheum Dis 2011; 70:896-904 

- 8) Scottish Intercollegiate Guidelines Network (SIGN).  Diagnosis and management of psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis in adults.  A national clinical guideline.  Edinburgh (Scotland); Scottish Intercollegiate (SIGN), 2010 Oct (SIGN publication, no. 121 (217 references) 

- 9) G Lichtenstein, S Hanauer _et al._ Management of CrohnŌĆÖs Disease in Adults. Am J Gastroenterol advance online publication, 6 January 2009 

- 10) EDF Guideline for Hidradenitis Suppurativa / Acne Inversa (HS) - S1 Guideline ŌĆō 2016-2017 

**Updated: 1/1/22 PS DUR Board approved: 11/20/2019, 11/17/2021** 

--- end of page.page_number=4 ---
